                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                           June 15, 2017


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 1:30pm (Eastern) and began at 1:38
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the Chairman. The meeting was held in person at Capital
    One's offices in Mclean, VA.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Rich Bowen
        Shane Curcuru
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Ted Dunning
        Jim Jagielski
        Chris Mattmann
        Brett Porter
        Phil Steitz
        Mark Thomas

    Executive Officers Present:

        Sam Ruby
        Ross Gardler
        Craig L Russell
        Kevin A. McGrail

    Guests:

        Sally Khudairi (dial in)
        Tom Pappas
        Greg Stein
        Tim Ellison
        Chris Schultz

3. Schedule: 13:30 - 15:15

      Apache in 5 years
        - what will be different, what must be the same?
        - Apache's culture: building & maintaining the connection with
          our projects

      Making it happen
        - Managing growth: what will this mean for operation needs &
          project acceptance?
        - Fundraising: now, next, future


 4. Executive Session

    Notes were sent via email to members of the board.

 5. Discussion Items

    A. Apache in 5 years

       Ross: Expect to see growth greater than now. e.g. Microsoft sees
       the importance of open source. The Linux Foundation, the Eclipse
       Foundation, and Apache all face challenges.

       Phil: Demand for Apache products will continue. We need to 
       maintain what we are doing. The bigger problem is managing
       what we are doing. We still need to absorb the growth we have
       already seen.

       Rich: The challenge is to find the next generation of people
       to keep the organization running as it has been.

       Ross: We see today the github generation. Young people think
       Apache is old-fashioned.

       Jim: The Linux Foundation is driving what people think of as
       open source. We need to teach our members and outsiders who
       we are. We need to take our leadership position seriously.

       Phil: We need to start thinking about the context of what
       we accept into Apache. The industry cannot survive on instant
       gratification. Apache strength is in collaboration. We should
       not try to attract people based on immediate gratification.
       Rather, we should try to attract engineers who "get it".

       Ross: We should change expectations of new members. For example,
       don't just vote +1 if you're not willing to help. And members
       should vote or leave.

       Kevin: Should we consider charging a membership fee to discourage
       non-participants?

       Ted: The incubator is where we should instill values. It takes
       three or so releases before most projects "get it". Incubation
       should be six months to a year.

       Shane: How do we get projects to understand what Apache is?
       We need both members and podlings to understand.

       Phil: Should we consider dividing the membership? Roy's advice
       is to include everyone in membership who "has a stake" in the
       foundation by contributing. But not all members contribute to
       the ongoing foundation operations, just to their own projects.
       So we now have a big growth in membership.

       Chris: The symptom is a lot of inactive members.

       Ross: One problem is that members are not expected to do anything.
       They show up at the incubator and mentor projects without
       understanding themselves what Apache is. At this point we
       probably don't even know most of the proposed members.

       Tom: How do we get new members to successfully onboard? Should 
       we make new members attend a webinar?

       Shane: We do need to set expectations for new members. It's 
       obviously not enough just to send them email with links.

       Jim: We are failing to instill our values into people during
       the incubation process.

       Bertrand: We could ask members to actively mentor existing
       projects, not just wait until there is some crisis.

       Brett: We cannot make expectations equal requirements.

       Ted: Perhaps we should charge the IPMC with after-graduation
       mentoring.

       Rich: We tried to have Community Development take that task and
       got pushback.

       Jim: The incubator is an experiment that has failed to produce
       projects that really get "The Apache Way".

       Possible Action Items:

       Develop a new member onboarding process with expectations
       Provide active mentoring for new projects

    B. Managing growth

       Greg: We will need to forecast resource requirements for projects.
       Maven tried at one point to keep a copy of every project, but
       infra did not have resources for that. Maven needs to request
       resources from the board.

       Ross, Kevin: This might be an opportunity for directed sponsorship.
       A PMC needs to ask for this; the board has already approved the
       concept.

       Greg: A large number of INFRA tickets are for new podlings.
       Graduating projects also creates work. Infra is working on reducing
       technical debt, primarily reducing owned hardware. 
       There is some work migrating projects to the Attic.
       The plan is to reduce owned hardware and migrating to the cloud.
       We expect automation of tasks related to new podlings and TLPs
       to be in place within three years.
       The current spend is $5K per project per year, but expect this
       to drop a bit in the future.

       Sam: Operations prefers bottom-up forecasting but the board
       wants to do top-down forecasts.

       Possible Action Items:

       Communicate the option for directed sponsorships to PMCs


    C. Fundraising plans

       Including review re: Proposal to License Assets of the Foundation

       Kevin: You have all seen the proposal to license assets of the
       foundation to a for-profit corporation which would give us
       income for continued operations. We are prepared to update it
       based on feedback from the board and outside counsel. The proposal
       is a compromise between charity and business.

       Brett: One issue is that vendor neutrality is key to how Apache
       operates, and we don't want to compete with businesses. Rather,
       we create opportunities for businesses to exist.

       Kevin: Competitors can all work on the same Apache projects.
       Apache is vendor-neutral but we think the new corporation could
       compete with others.

       Ted: If there is money to be made, this implies that a third
       party cannot compete with Apache. We are concerned about Apache
       competing with our supporters.

       Phil: Apache's core principle is non-compete. We provide an open
       platform for developing projects.

       Ross: This proposal will negatively affect our current sponsors.

       Jim: We have tried to avoid blessing any third party with the
       Apache brand. 

       Phil: Transparency is a showstopper. Using the Apache brand while
       Apache did not produce the product violates transparency.

       Ted: If the proposed corporation really only takes marginal 
       business (that others don't want) then is there really a business
       opportunity for the proposed corporation?

       Kevin: Is there anything in the proposal that can be changed
       in order to make it more acceptable?

       Ross/Phil/Jim/Brett: Probably not.

       Ross: A PMC could develop training materials using "directed
       sponsorship" funding, and the resulting materials would be
       available to anyone. 

    D. Follow up plans

       Kevin: Sponsorship of Apache is a bargain. We have not changed
       sponsorship fees in 15 years. Time to increase them.

       Brett: We should try to improve the sponsorship renewal process.

       Bertrand: One thing to look at is to take Travel Assistance out
       of the budget and have it be strictly sponsored.

       Kevin: Fundraising is looking at having a "sponsorship drive".

       Sally: The "Apache Ambassador" program has started. This program
       gives sponsors an "executive" contact within Apache. It looks like
       this program is adequately staffed at the moment. The ambassadors
       should make regular contact with our sponsors.

       Possible Action Items:

       Increase sponsorship fees after giving current sponsors the
       opportunity to renew at current levels

       Take TAC out of budget and make it a sponsored project

       Improve sponsor renewal process
    
 6. New Business

 7. Announcements

 8. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 5:00pm (Eastern)
    
------------------------------------------------------
End of agenda for the June 15, 2017 board meeting.
