                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            July 15, 2009


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at
    10:03 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and SpringSource.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Brian McCallister
        Brett Porter
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        David Blevins
        Niclas Hedhman
        Serge Knystautas
        Gavin McDonald
        Sam Ruby
        Bill Stoddard
        Sander Striker [left at 10:30am]
        Henri Yandell

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of March 18, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_03_18.txt

       Approved.

    B. The meeting of April 15, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_04_15.txt

       Tabled.

    C. The special meeting of April 28, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_04_28.txt

       Approved.

    D. The meeting of May 20, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_05_20.txt

       Approved.

    E. The meeting of June 17, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_06_17.txt

       Tabled.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       The big news of the month is that we had our annual ASF members
       meeting, held via IRC, on July 7th ("thru" July 9th). Although
       official numbers aren't posted yet, we had an extremely large
       turnout, both in attendance as well as in the poll, casting votes.
       
       We voted in 21 new members; the names are not yet public until all
       new members have been contacted and we receive their signed member
       applications. By next months meeting, however, we'll be able to
       note their names for the record.
       
       We also saw a large turnover in the board as well, with 5 new
       directors joining 4 returning directors. I would like to take this
       opportunity to thank all the previous directors (Bertrand Delacretaz,
       J Aaron Farr, William Rowe Jr, Sam Ruby and Henning Schmiedehausen)
       and to welcome in the "new guys" (Shane Curcuru, Doug Cutting,
       Roy T. Fielding, Brian McCallister and Brett Porter). Because of
       the large turnover, the board has decided to postpone Executive
       Officer appointments until September. Still an open topic is the
       question regarding directors also being officers. The general
       consensus seems to be that having a formal rule in place pre-
       venting it seems overkill, but that it should be strongly
       discouraged. The overall responsibility for the decision rests
       on the board (and the individual as well).
       
       As per our policy, raw board ballots have been committed to SVN.

       Good, healthy discussion is continuing on members@ regarding
       topics such as additional fundraising techniques (eg: store.apache.org)
       and others. Work is also continuing regarding our presence at OSCON.
       
       The old conference-call account is going away the end of this month. We
       are getting a new service, also donated by SpringSource. I will forward
       account info to directors and officers later on this week. As with the old,
       this is an ASF-specific account for foundation use.
       
       Without a doubt, this year will be an interesting one.

    B. President [Justin]

       Sander and I along with some other volunteers will be manning an ASF
       booth at OSCON next week in San Jose.  We should have postcards to
       hand out to people who stop by our booth.  The annual catching up and
       exchange of war stories between foundation folks will be happening on
       Sunday and Monday.  If possible, we will try to also touch base with
       any sponsors (including potentials!) who are at OSCON.

       SCP has approached Noirin and I about how we wish to proceed
       with AC contract discussions.  It would be nice to get some feedback
       from the new Board about what they wish to see as the outcome.  If
       no feedback is forthcoming, then Noirin and I will proceed as
       we see fit.

       I largely expect that this summer should be relatively quiet as
       the new Board gets its bearings and decide what it wants to see
       accomplished (and, perhaps, more importantly, what it doesn't want
       to accomplish).

       Discussion:
         Jim: should Concom prepare something for the board to
         consider, or should the board take the initiative?
       
         Justin: it would be useful for the board to take a position
         given that a number of directors took a position.
       
         Jim: how hard would it be for concom to come up with a
         position.
       
         Justin: it would be helpful if the board decided major things
         like whether we want ApacheCon at all, cut it, continue it,
         etc.
       
         Jim: lets take this to the board mailing list.

         Aaron: suggests concom@

         Jim: If the intent is to collect the board's input, lets start
         it on board@.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2009-07-13 for checking,
      savings and credit card accounts.

      Contributions:
       - Current PayPal balance is $12,397.90 USD. Contributions via PayPal for 
         June 2009 were $1135.33.   This is not reflected in statement of position below. 
         (I want the reports to always accurately represent Quickbooks data). 
         PayPal history reporting seems to be often broken.
       - IONA 2009 invoice  paid on 7/13 ($20,000)
       - Google 2009 invoice paid on 6/30 ($100,000)
       - Google 2008 partial invoice outstanding (not a worry)
       - Note that YHOO and MSFT Plat sponsorship anniversary is Aug 2009.  AFAIK, I have not
         been requested to issue any invoices.

      Tasks Done:
       - bills : Avnet.  Note there is a $4700 bill awaiting PRC approval
       - resent Sunstar check again.  We are in sync.
       - PayPal and I don't get along because PayPal is often broken and their
         reports never give totals.  How hard could this be?

      In Progress:
       - Getting thank-you info together for Phil

      Todo :
       - Move Sunstar, Sally, (?) to direct pay if they are willing
       - FY2008 taxes - due date is August 15th
       - Find place for cash above FDIC limit (e.g. CDs)
       - review switching from accrual to cash accounting

     1) Statement of Financial Income and Expense - June 2009 - Accrual Basis

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                         122.71 
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                 50,010.00 
              Total Contributions Income                           50,010.00 

           Total Income                                            50,132.71 

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                    340.31 
              Contract Labor                                          800.00
              Postage and Delivery                                     19.95 
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                   518.00 
                   Infrastructure Staff               12,000.00  (1)
                   Infrastructure - Other              4,072.53 
                Total Infrastructure                         16,590.53 

                Public Relations
                   Public Relations Staff              3,636.36 
                Total Public Relations                        3,636.36 

              Total Program Expenses                               20,226.89 

           Total Expense                                           21,387.15

        Net Ordinary Income                                        28,745.56

     Net Income                                                    28,745.56

     Note 1 : The extra 6k was for the returned check last month.
     
     2) Statement of Financial Position - As of June 30 - Accrual Basis

                                                   Jun 30, 09    Jun 30, 08     $ Change       % Change
     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Paypal                                  10,885.17        154.30     10,730.87       6,954.6%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account           120,018.91    103,434.33     16,584.58          16.0%
             Wells Fargo Savings                    284,171.69    157,450.03    126,721.66          80.5%
           Total Checking/Savings                   415,075.77    261,038.66    154,037.11          59.0%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                     70,000.00          0.00     70,000.00         100.0%
           Total Accounts Receivable                 70,000.00          0.00     70,000.00         100.0%

        Total Current Assets                        485,075.77    261,038.66    224,037.11          85.8%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                   485,075.77    261,038.66    224,037.11          85.8%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                   39.90          0.00         39.90         100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz              0.00      1,273.31     -1,273.31        -100.0%
             Total Credit Cards                          39.90      1,273.31     -1,233.41         -96.9%

           Total Current Liabilities                     39.90      1,273.31     -1,233.41         -96.9%

        Total Liabilities                                39.90      1,273.31     -1,233.41         -96.9%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                        363,508.34    261,948.68    101,559.66          38.8%
           Net Income                               121,527.53     -2,183.33    123,710.86       5,666.2%
        Total Equity                                485,035.87    259,765.35    225,270.52          86.7%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                     485,075.77    261,038.66    224,037.11          85.8%

   3) Ad-hoc Budget Tracking

    Summary : We're way behind in income on a flat monthly plan, but we're also far ahead in expenses.
             (Expenses are less their budget by more than income is less than target, on a percentage basis.)

    Income :

       Current monthly income target is $541,200 / 12 = $45,100

       Interest income      : $122
       Paypal Contributions : $1135

       Sponsorship contributions for June 2009 :

            Platinum :  ($100,000 / 12 = $8333)
                 Microsoft   $8333
                 Yahoo       $8333
                 Google      $8333 

            Silver :  ($20,000 / 12 = $1667)
                 HP           $1667

            Bronze : ($5,000 / 12 = $417)
                 BlueNog       $417
                 Intuit        $417
                 Joost         $417
                 Mullenweg     $417

        Sponsorship Subtotal :  $28,333

       Monthly Total : $29,590
     % of monthly target  :  66%

      YTD Total : $58,284
      % of annual plan : 11%

    Expense :

       Current monthly expense budget is $404,541 / 12 = $33,711

       Expense for June 2009 (cash basis) : $20,226

       % of  monthly target  :  60% (this is good!)

        YTD Total : $33,751
        % of plan : 8%

       Discussion:
         justin: avnet bill for $4700 isn't PRC, but infra
         geir: that's two separate entries; avnet is paid, $4700 is for
         infra
       
         aaron: are all PayPal transactions up to date?
         geir: no, but I will be getting a pro to help me...


    D. Secretary [Sam]

       Two thirds (literally: 14/21) of the membership applications have been
       received and processed.  I've verified that everyone voted in has been
       contacted and will follow up closer to the deadline if there are any
       remaining stragglers.

       I had a number of people indicate that they wished to go emeritus,
       but only received two forms.  Those have been processed.

       While my evil plan to get motivated officers to process CLAs and
       grants in accordance with their best interests hasn't attracted
       many volunteers, "where's my fax?" questions have all but disappeared.
       I guess that's an acceptable outcome.  Given the investment in
       automation, and without the time pressure, the actual time it takes to
       read and enter one name and one email address per form isn't all that
       much of a burden.

       Once minutes are approved, they will be posted.

       And just so it is totally clear, and despite my previous indications
       that I intended to step down, I've agreed to stay on through September
       as Secretary, if that is the wish of the board.


    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       As per Justin, we're going to be at OSCON, manning the booth,
       getting in touch with Sponsors, and meeting up with folks from
       other foundations.

       In the September and October timeframe there are some speaking
       opportunities in Europe; need to finalize my calendar and travel
       schedule.

       Discussion:
         Roy: what is the current status of the EA search?

         Sander: want to get an impression of the new board before
         proceeding

         Roy: preference is to assume the mandate of the previous board
         continues

         Sander: the previous board was divided

         Roy: my guess is the current board is too

         Jim: we should restart it, and rehashing everything would not
         be a good use of our time

         Sander: I have time on Friday

         Jim: great!

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    1. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

       Jim re-confirmed that it was his intent to add W3C to the board
       schedule.

    2. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 2

    3. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Doug]

       See Attachment 3

    4. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley / Brett]

       See Attachment 4

       Shane: BFBB costs: when will we know if sponsorship/registration 
       targets are met?

       Bill Rowe: As for the specific targets, and how they relate to the main
       welcome reception/bfbb and bfbb/afterparty/rave, I will raise these
       questions at the scheduled planning meeting on Thursday (sadly the day
       after the directors have met) and provide more concrete data and
       updates in the August report.  Note that one Platinum sponsor is
       currently confirmed.

    5. Apache Public Relations Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 5

       Roy: I would add to Hen's list: Resp. for content of press kit.
       Jim: I will pass 'press kit' info to PRC.

       Geir: Progress/IONA money was received.

    6. Apache Infrastructure Team [Paul Querna / Justin]

       See Attachment 6

    7. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Geir]

       See Attachment 7

       Greg: what's up with SCP?

       Bill Rowe: Quoting Charel Morris on 7/14; "And I know I owe you back
       invoices -- I promise they are on my todo list."

       Roy: Why is TAC requesting invoices from SCP anyway?

       Jim: Who wants to take point in passing these back to TAC?

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Greg]

       See Attachment A

       Greg to verify that the sandbox work is community driven, and to
       remind Hiram to update committee-info.txt.

    B. Apache APR Project [Bojan Smojver / Justin]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Attic Project [Henri Yandell / Brian]

       See Attachment C

       General agreement that this report should become quarterly.

    D. Apache Beehive Project [Eddie O'Neil / Jim]

       See Attachment D

       No report provided.  Jim to check into and suggest that Attic be
       explored as an alternative.

    E. Apache CXF Project [J. Daniel Kulp / Roy]

       See Attachment E

       Kudos for the test passing!

    F. Apache DB Project [Rick Hillegas / Shane]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Justin]

       See Attachment G

       Jim: this project asked for a postponement until Aug 2009.

    H. Apache Geronimo Project [Kevan Miller / Shane]

       See Attachment H

       Brett: I assume the specs issues will be covered in JCP report too

    I. Apache Hadoop Project [Owen O'Malley / Jim]

       See Attachment I

       Regarding Hadoop Common:
         Greg wondered if Common could move over to commons.apache.org

         Doug suggested that that was premature, and that much of the code
         may not be useful to non-Hadoop applications.

         Brett agreed that that would not make sense.

       Regarding developer meet up:
         Justin: only committers were invited, if somebody else had
         showed up, would they have been allowed?

         Doug: invitations were sent directly to committers.

         Jim: would others have been allowed?

         Doug: others did hear about it and did attend. I would
         appreciate clear guidelines.

         Roy: committers only is normal for a dev meeting

         Jim: I remember an issue with a "closed" meeting with
         Geronimo, and will dig up those minutes. You want to avoid any
         impression that it is by invitation only.

         Roy: there is no problem with contributors only, the problem
         is if you only invite a subset of the contributors

         Justin: the issue is that contributors may be a superset of
         committers

         Doug: I would be happy with a rule that it should be discussed
         on the dev list, and be invitation only, with all committers
         being included

         Jim: that makes sense

         Roy: suggests updating /dev with this information

         Jim: volunteers?

         Roy: will do

    J. Apache iBATIS Project [Clinton Begin / Geir]

       See Attachment J

       Geir to pursue a report for iBATIS

    K. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Brett]

       See Attachment K

       Jim: should there be some sort of "impact" for podlings that don't
       report time and time again?

       Roy: Note that Traffic Server is a Yahoo! trademark; a solution
       is hinted in proposal but needs review by Apache Legal.

       Brett: will take both back to Noel.

    L. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Doug]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache JAMES Project [Danny Angus / Brian]

       See Attachment M

    O. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl / Roy]

       Prepared but not submitted.  Postponed until next month.

    O. Apache MINA Project [Julien Vermillard / Greg]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache MyFaces Project [Matthias Wessendorf / Jim]

       See Attachment P

       Community:
         Greg: What does "vote was stopped" mean? Some kind of community
         problem?

         Jim: No community problem. See:
              http://markmail.org/message/s6ep4k3wzqa7l633
              http://markmail.org/message/5rrjzerkzuqtymxg
              Just discussion.

       JSR314:
         Brett: is the second JSR314 EG member representing
         Apache or themselves?

         Justin: Can Geir help out with JSR 314 issue?

         Geir: Second EG member is one representing us.  It's the
         spec lead's discretion on this - in the past we've
         had multiple, and had multiple refused.  I've been
         following the issue, and thought that Ed was just
         on vacation or such.  Will check w/ MyFaces.

    Q. Apache ODE Project [Matthieu Riou / Brett]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache OpenEJB Project [David Blevins / Doug]

       See Attachment R

       Greg: imo, PMC membership votes should be private. it is
       *very* hard for a fellow committer to -1 somebody in
       public. thus, you do not get truly unfettered voting by
       doing so on the dev@ list.

       Justin: Well, I know many PMCs cast their votes in public.  Does
       it merit a broader announcement/reminder?

       Doug: David is aware of the issue, and feels that in this case this
       process is a better fit for this project.

       Sam: I suggest a guideline, not a rule

       Brian: I prefer flexibility

       Shane: committer votes private be strong guideline, but not
       rule

       Jim: concern is the public minutes, I agree to guideline not a
       rule

       Doug: I'll work to get something on the dev site that is
       advisory

    S. Apache OpenJPA Project [Craig Russell / Greg]

       See Attachment S

       Greg: Geir: can you address the license issue in your JCP report?

       Jim, Shane: +1 for Geir to have something "on the record"

       Roy: that is probably just the PFD license (it is always limited)

       Geir: that is the draft license, but we've fixed it in the past (w/ JSF
       for example.)  In this case, I did one more cage rattling and
       Sun has apologized and promised a fax of what I wanted signed
       by someone of sufficient paygrade to change the draft license
       in this case in a binding way.  What could go wrong with a 
       signed document?

    U. Apache Shale Project [Roy]

       The Shale PMC was concluded on May 20.

    U. Apache Sling Project [Felix Meschberger / Shane]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daryl C. W. O'Shea / Geir]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Justin]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Brian]

       See Attachment X
       
       Brett noted the existence of Cascade which has an overlap of
       one committer with this project, but nobody saw that as an issue.

    Y. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Roy]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Greg]

       See Attachment Z

       Brett reported that there seems to be reasonable consensus for
       Axis2 to become a TLP with some subset of projects.

       Many expressed support for the idea.

    AA. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Justin]

       See Attachment AA

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Change the Apache Jakarta Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Martin van
       den Bemt to the office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Martin van den Bemt from the office of Vice President, Apache
       Jakarta, and

       WHEREAS, the members of the Apache Jakarta Project Management
       Committee have chosen by vote to recommend Rahul Akolkar as the
       successor to the post;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Martin van den Bemt is
       relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Rahul Akolkar be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta, to serve in
       accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of Directors
       and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement,
       removal or disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 7A, Change the Apache Jakarta Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


    B. Update Legal Affairs Committee Membership

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee of The Apache Software
       Foundation (ASF) expects to better serve its purpose through the
       periodic update of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee is an Executive Committee
       whose membership must be approved by Board resolution; and

       WHEREAS, the Legal Affairs Committee is in receipt of William
       Rowe Jr's resignation.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following ASF member be
       removed as a Legal Affairs Committee member:

          William Rowe Jr <wrowe@apache.org>

       Special Order 7B, Update Legal Affairs Committee Membership,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors present.


    C. Change of Public Relations Committee Charter

       WHEREAS, the Public Relations Committee was chartered and
       responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to handle
       public relations on behalf of The Apache Software Foundation,
       including trademark licensing and other issues regarding
       management of the Apache brand and raising of funds, but
       excluding the ApacheCon conferences (which shall remain a
       responsibility of the Apache Conference Planning Committee); and

       WHEREAS, the Apache Conference Planning Committee would benefit
       from the oversight and expertise of Public Relations Committee
       in relation to the Apache brand, and coordination in the raising
       of funds;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Public Relations
       Committee, an ASF Board Committee, hereby is rechartered
       pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the phrase, "excluding the ApacheCon conferences
       (which shall remain a responsibility of the Apache Conference
       Planning Committee)" is struck from the Public Relations
       Committee charter; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Public Relations Committee be and hereby is
       responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to handle
       public relations on behalf of The Apache Software Foundation,
       including trademark licensing and other issues regarding
       management of the Apache brand and raising of funds.

       Special Order 7C, Change of Public Relations Committee
       Charter, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.


 8. Discussion Items

    A. Who will be at OSCON next week?
       Will be there: Justin, Greg, Henri, Paul, Sander.  Geir may show up.

    B. Any interest in 'board' retreat?
       +1's from Shane, Greg, Justin.
       Greg suggests US
       Roy offers his conference room in Newport Beach
       Jim suggested September
       Discussion will continue on board@

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    Jim expressed an interest in trying to restart this again.  Sam will help.

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

    A. Change of HTTP Server PMC Chair
    
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Roy T. Fielding
       to the office of Vice President, Apache HTTP Server, and
       
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation of
       Roy T. Fielding from the office of Vice President, Apache HTTP Server,
       and
       
       WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache HTTP Server
       project has chosen by vote to recommend William Rowe Jr. as the
       successor to the post;
       
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Roy T. Fielding is
       relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache HTTP Server, and
       
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that William Rowe Jr. be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache HTTP Server, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death, resignation,
       retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
       appointed.

    New Business item 11A, Change of HTTP Server PMC Chair, was approved by
    Unanimous Vote of the directors present.

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 11:06 a.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Very slow month.  Sun is in hibernation or brown dwarf or
whatever happens to suns when they lose energy.

The main outstanding issue is getting JPA spec license wording 
resolved.  This is an issue that we've solved before, namely 
with the Oracle-led Java Server Faces spec.

With that license, Sun worked with Oracle to change the wording
to remove the usage limitations of implementations.

Sun agrees with us in this case that the wording should be changed,
but haven't yet been able to secure a written statement to that 
effect.  I will keep trying various ways to get this in writing.

Update 2009-07-15 : Sun has promised the necessary documentation by
fax today.

I'm eagerly awaiting the completion of the Sun acquisition by 
Oracle so we can get a final decision on the Java SE TCK license.

Also, I spent a few minutes on the phone with an attorney working
for SAP who was interested in our POV on the TCK licensing 
dispute.  I've had no other inquiries regarding that.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

At the present time, I don't see any issues needing board attention.

Exceedingly quiet month.  There was a question about the autoconf license
which was addressed by pointing to the resolved list.  There was a discussion
about the license of research papers posted on web sites, which didn't reach a
conclusion.

There were discussions about the Pope's position on Patents, and on the
use of Apache 2.0 by University with patents (the latter was taken off-list).

Jansi (non-ASF tool) is licensed under Apache License with optional dependency on
LGPL, and this kicked off the predictable discussions.  I continue to believe
that such discussions will continue with people taking extreme positions
until and unless such questions are grounded in a tangible request by a PMC
(or podling), at which point I am confident that pragmatism will win.

There were two legal internal discussions that did not result in any concrete
actions being taken.

I'd like to thank Bill Rowe for his positive contributions during his
membership in the Legal Affairs Committee.  He will be missed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For June 2009: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to be
dealt with promptly by the security team.

2    Support question
7    Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
2    Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
1    Vulnerability report
     of which
       1    Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]

This month saw the publication of the Apache httpd "Slowloris" DoS
tool which caused a larger number of public questions to the list
(those questions and discussions were correctly redirected to the
public dev list).  Updated Tomcat and APR-util was also released to
address a number of older security issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project (July 2009)

General News
------------

* Noirin Shirley has assumed the chairwoman and V.P. post at the Conference
Planning committee, as directed by the board June 17th.  The traditional ConCom
leadership reception was held for her on members list.


ApacheCon US 2009 News (2-6 November)
-------------------------------------

* Two meetings on the 10th and 13th gave track coordinators and mentors a
chance to bounce ideas around for their programs and project activities at the
event, and these ideas are being brought back to the planners for discussion
and hopefully implementation.

* Each PMC should have a completed schedule by 20th July, all are progressing
with their program plans with some already completed.

* The completed programming is being published over the coming week.

* The next group of all-PMC communications will center around planning meetups
or other evening activities, and around publicity and outreach of each
project's presence and encouraging registration.

* Planning to really kick off publicity at OSCON - majority of the schedule
will be published on the site at that point.

* Registration is now open - Committers must register before August 1st to get
the best possible deal (a $100 savings)!

* Speaker travel has been a contentious issue. There is presently a budget of
$700 per track-day for travel, to be allocated on an as-needed basis.  

* All CFP session submitters were sent followup communications on the 9th,
clarifying travel and programming by PMCs.  Acceptance notification is
progressing as each track is finalized.  Final not-accepted notifications will
be made the week of July 20th.

* No update yet on BFBB activity.  The present budget does not assign cost of
this reception (also serving as the welcome reception) to the foundation,
provided ApacheCon sponsorship and registration remain on target.


ApacheMeetUp/BarCampApache Asia 2009 (Late Nov/Early Dec 2009)
----------------------------------------------------

* We are looking at dates around the week of November 30th-Dec. 4th.  The
current discussion includes Beijing and Colombo, with the possibility of an
extra stop in Shanghai.

* We are talking to some potential sponsors to see if we can help defray the
cost of the event.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

OVERVIEW + GENERAL INFO

Staffing:
  1) Bertrand returned from leave, but decided to depart again; Also,
     Ted and Yoav have requested to leave and were removed from the PRC
     at last month's board meeting.
  2) Sally will be part-time through September, 
     - work anticipated to be completed as committed

Discussion continued regarding engaging RedMonk at $5K/year; vote put out
by Jim: 6x +1; 7x -1 --
  +1 (Sally, Justin, Niclas/non-binding, Martijn/non-binding, Ross, Jim)
  -1 (Sanjiva, Lars, Santiago, Cliff, Phil/non-binding, Henri, Craig)

Request received from Kathey Marsden to join PRC list to observe; followed
up by Ross, along with discussion on suggested code awards + mentoring

Hen raised the question on what does the PRC do, and answered it himself,
along with his understanding of who manages the actual tasks:

  1) Provide a general contact point for the ASF as a whole via press@,
     prc@ and human-response@ mailing lists;
  2) Define trademark policy for users;
  3) Contact third parties regarding trademark abuse;
  4) Organizing booths at conferences;
  5) Responsible for sponsorship;
  6) Responsible for acquiring new sponsors;
  7) Responsible for retaining sponsors;
  8) Responsible for changing the thanks.html page on sponsorship change;
  9) Responsible for report to the board;
  10) Point for all press releases going out from the ASF;
  11) Liaison for all joint press releases with sponsors;
  12) Approver of press releases from non-sponsors


GENERAL + COMMUNITY OUTREACH

Emmanuel Lecharny forwarded a request from the upcoming Open World Forum
(October/Paris): are we interested in participating? What's our message?
What materials should we bring, etc. PRC feel that it's a worthy event, and
would like to participate.

ASF received offer to participate at the OSCON dot org pavilion. PRC
decided that we should participate, and Sally worked with the OSCON team to
secure the booth {T-23; next to the OFBiz guys}.

Sally is working with Michael Wechner on getting first set of 5 ASF
Filmworks videos online on the ASF's official YouTube channel for OSCON
(20-24 July; status: still in editing cycle, should be complete in time);
this will dovetail with the "My Apache" campaign, where we ask users,
projects, etc. to post their videos on YouTube describing how Apache has
changed their lives, as well as to record birthday wishes for the ASF,
which we'll likely showcase during ApacheCon.

Sally shortens the ASF boilerplate for use at OSCON (limit of 50 words);
also scales to meet Jukka's request for boilerpate needed for release
announcements: "About The Apache Software Foundation Established in 1999,
The Apache Software Foundation provides organizational, legal, and
financial support for more than 100 freely-available,
collaboratively-developed Open Source projects. The pragmatic Apache
License enables individual and commercial users to easily deploy Apache
software; the Foundation's intellectual property framework limits the legal
exposure of its 2,500+ contributors. For more information, visit
http://www.apache.org/"

Niclas sends a detailed report on the Malaysian Open Source Conference
2009, and states: "All in all, this conference was 'better' than the
ApacheCon's that I have attended, in terms of 'food', 'price/value',
premises and attendance."

Sally is exploring options for the Big Feather Birthday Bash at ApacheCon,
and awaiting details from Danese re: possible "rave" concept.

Sally discussed a possible press release with Felix Meschberger re: press
announcement for Apache Sling as TLP; suggests using Qpid announcement as a
model


MEDIA AND ANALYST RELATIONS

Sally and Justin worked with Yahoo!PR team regarding their Cloud computing
press release for Apache Hadoop
http://investor.news.com/cnet/?GUID=8511908&Page=MediaViewer&Ticker=INTC ;
and accurately attributed by the press
http://www.techcrunchit.com/2009/06/10/yahoo-releases-internal-hadoop-
source-code/ however, there seems to be a persistent issue on the side of
Cloudera regarding implication of Hadoop's "ownership". Larry states: "what
Cloudera is doing is just rude and insensitive and inaccurate, not majorly
illegal, so perhaps he (Cloudera CEO) can apologize to us by having his
company become a big-time Apache sponsor? Will money make us happy?" Both
Sally and Larry know Cloudera CEO Mike Olson and have offered to discuss
the issue with him; Larry will follow up.

A similar concern springs from this issue, where discussions on the use of
the Hadoop name, specifically as "Hadoop Summit", where Larry stated
internally that the two-word phrase, "Apache Hadoop", as an ASF trademark
for certain software, and that the PRC should ensure there is a "TM" notice
in the proper place and that we ensure that the press know to refer to our
software with the adjective "Apache Hadoop".

Sally gave a top-level overview of Hadoop to MIT Technology Review for
their Cloud computing roundup; repeated attempts to purchase the article
online have failed - if anyone has access to the 23 June edition and can
scan the article, please let us know!

Drafted and distributed "Registration Is Open" press release for ApacheCon
Press Release - issued 30 June
http://news.prnewswire.com/ViewContent.aspx?ACCT=109&STORY=/www/story/06-30
-2009/0005052657&EDATE=

PRC discusses creating a new "In the Press" page at apache.org; need to
fine-tune what constitutes "news"

Hen forwarded a press opportunity with the Financial Times to discuss the
ASF's position on Oracle/Java/Sun etc. PRC reiterates its decision from
several weeks back that there is no official ASF statement on this topic,
and is unable to pursue any such interaction. Craig reminds us that
"there's nothing that Apache should say except 'very interesting...'."

Sally spoke with Mark Thomas regarding a possible press release on the
final Tomcat 4.1.x release; is awaiting follow-up from the Tomcat team


Total media hits during June: 329 (includes mentions by affiliates/friends,
as well as mailing lists)


BRAND, TRADEMARK, AND LOGO USAGE

Shane stated that we're starting to define our trademark policy to include
a list of ASF trademarks (checked in), a procedures doc for PMCs to update
their websites (trying to write from Larry's email today), and a task list
for concretely forming official policy in terms of how we treat and defend
our trademarks. One of the key items in trademark-plan.txt is figuring out
what we think our trademarks are.

Hen subsequently updated the trademarks page, and has "moved the following
down because we are not the original releasers": ActiveMQ, Buildr, Cayenne,
CouchDB, POI, iBatis, Lucene, MyFaces, Roller, ServiceMix, Tapestry, Tiles,
and Wicket; he kept SpamAssassin in the top list as we've gained ownership
of the trademark itself. In addition, the following have been moved to the
Common words section: HTTP Server, HttpComponents, Portals, Web Services,
and DB; ownership of the following needs to be determined: XML, XMLBeans,
TCL, OpenEJB, and OpenJPA, as well as possibly HTTP. Outstanding issues
involve questions regarding acronyms such as CXF, STDCXX, APR, ODE, etc.

Larry discusses Tomcat and JSecurity trademarks with Ralph Goers. Hen
states: "'Apache JSecurity' is a good name and benefits the Apache
trademark 100%. Security is clear and J is somewhat clear as a common way
to say 'Java'; 'Apache Tomcat' is a poor name because it says nothing about
this software from the Apache people and the benefit to our brand is split
between Apache and Tomcat." Larry stresses that we need to decide whether
or not we want to treat "Tomcat" as our trademark, and weigh what that
exactly would entail; "Apache Tomcat" is already a trademark of the ASF.

Larry has also been discussing the history of other ASF marks, related
trademarks, and adding "TM" symbols to select logos; and stresses that PRC
needs to publish better guidelines. He is also concerned about the many
versions of the Apache feather logo in existence, as it dilutes the
strength of the brand; also, how does one know which brand marks which
goods.

Niclas sent over two revised SVG version of the ASF logo (with and without
text) - based on the original created by Thien (?); these two were later
improved upon by Upayavira.

Lars forwarded a site that contains mirrors of various Open Source tools
and system software, but also contains ASF Web pages http://us2.yoper.com/
appears to be a copy of the ASF Web site. Hen tracked down the domain
owner, and discussions are underway to determine if there's a legitimate
problem with the usage.

Niclas forwarded a request from the founders of Qi4j (himself included),
who want the Qi4j trademark to be as free as the source code is (Apache
v.2.0); Larry recommends the discussion be moved to the legal-discuss list

Jukka registered the ASF logo the icon (with TM) for git@git.apache.org at
http://github.com/apache

Mark Thomas noted that David Calavera has a new project which uses the
Tomcat product name but does not follow the guidelines at
http://tomcat.apache.org/legal.html; he forwarded them to that page but has
not pursued the issue further.

Niclas shared a conversation he had with the organizers of the
government-backed Malaysian Open Source Conference, who were very
interested in organizing an ApacheCon in Kuala Lumpur in 2010 or 2011. Of
particular interest are training sessions. The discussion and related
details are on the ConCom list.

Luc Maisonobe informed us that he was requested by CNES (the French space
agency) to give a presentation on commons-math as part of their public
symposium dedicated to high performance computing. Craig confirmed that his
use of the Apache name and logo, as well as his professional and ASF
affiliations (he's a member of the commons-math PMC) are acceptable by the
PRC.

Larry requested the ASF name/logo get included at the list for the upcoming
Community Leadership Summit http://www.communityleadershipsummit.com/ ;
Sally followed up with organizer Jono Bacon, who promised to add the ASF
logo to the site the week of 29 June, but hasn't done so yet (followed up
twice since then).


SPONSORSHIP

Who will manage Sponsor Relations (i.e., augment HALO contract vs. retain
Delia Frees) is still undecided.

Progress/IONA's payment for renewing for 2009 at the Silver level has not
yet been received. Sally discussed this with Debbie Moynihan twice in June.

HP's commitment for renewing for 2009 at the Silver level has the extra
request for us extend them Gold Sponsorship status - a.k.a.
"Vermeil/upgraded Silver" level in recognition of their ongoing
contributions. No decision has been forwarded to Scott Lamons yet. Jim gave
an excellent presentation on the ASF for HP's "Tux Talk" on 18 June.

SpringSource has committed to renew for 2009 at the Silver level, and will
advise regarding their billing cycle (2009 vs. 2010 FY/budget).

Larry contacted Bob Sutor at IBM regarding a possible Sponsorship, and
suggested Sally to follow up. He also suggested we create specific "Why IBM
should sponsor Apache" talking points.

PRC has decided that Emeritus Sponsors will not be listed on the
Sponsorship page.

Yahoo!'s and Microsoft's Platinum Sponsorships expire in August; Sally
following up on this, along with the possibility of Justin and Sander
meeting with all ASF Sponsors during OSCON.

FUNDRAISING

Phil has volunteered to lead the team in writing individual donor thank you
letters, particularly those past due, to keep in compliance with IRS
regulations.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Justin Mason arranged for a free license to the Spamhaus DNSBL
service.

Tony Stevenson and Chris Rhodes began testing phase 2 of LDAP
service on harmonia (svn mirror).

We lost another drive in aurora (.eu website mirror).  Sander
Striker is investigating a pair of replacement drives.

Gavin McDonald was voted into the root@ club for his interest
in FreeBSD maintenance.

Purchased an r710 Dell box for VMWare hosting for ~$5K.

Purchased RAM SCSI Card and additional drives from NewEgg
for ~$1100.

Mads Toftum upgraded aurora (.eu website mirror) to Solaris 10 5/09.

Don Brown upgraded our Confluence installation to 2.10.3.

Gavin McDonald is organizing the return of the four IBM x345s
on loan.

We continue to experience availability issues with eris (svn)
due to zfs issues with FreeBSD.

VMWare Workstation on odin was upgraded to 6.5.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

General News
============

Not much to report on this month. TAC are still discussing submission
opening dates for applications and the timeline of events that follow it
to ApacheCon. 

We started to look for a suitable US Travel Agent to use,
that has not been settled yet. 

There is going to be an IRC meeting on Monday 13th July 20:00 UTC to discuss 
the run up to ApacheCon US and come up with a timeline and hopefully sort out 
who can do what. It is expected that we will start the advertising push this 
week with Applications opening around the end of July. Nick, Tony and Matt 
have offered to be the 3 judges again this time around with Ross in reserve, 
thanks Guys.

Still no reply from SCP regarding our invoices from the last two ApacheCons.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

Community:
 * The ActiveMQ project has had another very busy but quiet quarter.
 * The development and user lists continue to stay vibrant.
 * New PMC members: Dejan Bosanac
 * New Committers: Colin MacNaughton, Bruce Snyder

Development:
 * The first release of the Apache ActiveMQ .NET 1.1.0 project is underway.
 * ActiveMQ 5.3.x maintenance development continues expect a release soon.
 * Lots of impressive work being done sandbox area for a revolutionary
   version of the Broker may one day become ActiveMQ 6.0.

Releases:
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 2.2.6
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 3.0.0
 * ActiveMQ-CPP 3.0.1


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache APR Project

The activity on the project in the last 3 months (Mar 9 2009 to Jun 18
2009) was as follows:

APR trunk:      100 commits
APR util trunk:   2 commits
APR 1.4.x:       10 commits
APR util 1.4.x:  15 commits
APR 1.3.x:       14 commits
APR util 1.3.x:  22 commits
APR 0.9.x:        4 commits
APR util 0.9.x:   8 commits
APR iconv trunk:  0 commits
APR iconv 0.9.x:  0 commits
site:             8 commits

Current stable release of APR is 1.3.5, released Jun 5 2009. Legacy
release 0.9.18 occurred on the same day.

Current stable release of APR util is 1.3.7, released Jun 5 2009. Legacy
release 0.9.17 occurred on the same day.

Current stable APR iconv release is 1.2.1, released Nov 15 2007.

Several security issues have been fixed in the latest round of releases:

CVE-2009-1955: apr-util billion laughs attack
CVE-2009-1956: apr-util single NULL byte buffer overflow
CVE-2009-0023: apr-util heap buffer underwrite

On the development front, the trunk of apr-util has been folded into
apr. From version 2.0 onward, these two will be one and the same
library.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Attic Project

Nothing to report this month. We don't know of any projects currently
looking to move to the Attic.

As things have quietened down, and we have a repeatable process for
the next entry into the Attic, we'd like to move to quarterly reports.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Beehive Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache CXF Project

Releases:
2.0.11 was released
2.1.5 was released
2.2.1 was released
2.2.2 was released (First Apache licensed, JAX-RS compliant implementation)

Distributed OSGi/Remote Services 1.0 released

2.2.3/2.1.6/2.0.12 releases are being prepared for the end of July.
DOSGi 1.1 release is also being prepared.


Community:
With the release of 2.2.2, CXF is now JAX-RS compliant in addition to JAX-WS
compliant.   This is a major milestone for CXF and the community has responded
to it well with many new users.

The DOSGi 1.0 release has also attracted many new users as well as a bunch of
blog postings and tweets and such.

We have 3 GSoC students working on projects.

In June, JBoss was able to achieve 100% passing of the JAX-WS/JWS/SAAJ/JAXR
parts of the J2EE TCK with CXF as the JAX-WS implementation.  Much work went
into getting CXF to pass these tests, one result was Alessio Soldano being
voted in as a committer.

Due to the DOSGi and JAX-RS releases, June was a very busy month on the
mailing lists.   dev traffic was almost double the previous several months.
users traffic was up by 50%.

Committers/PMC:
Alessio Soldano was added as a committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache DB Project

Over the past quarter, development in the DB projects continued steadily:

1) Derby produced a major feature release, 10.5.1. The community then
proceeded to work on a follow-on maintenance release, 10.5.2, slated for
delivery in August.

2) Java Data Objects produced an early access release, 2.3.

3) Ole Solberg was elected as a Derby committer.

4) Derby mentored four summer-of-code students.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Directory Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

The Geronimo community is nearing the completion of a 2.2 Server
release. There has also been a lot of progress towards an 
implementation of the OSGi Blueprint specification. The 
community is also starting to look at Java EE 6 and OSGi support.

GENESIS 
Genesis 2.0 was released using the apache 6 maven pom. This
release better aligns Geronimo projects (and any other projects
using Genesis) with standard Apache Maven best practices and
release procedures.

SERVER 
Significant progress has been made towards a 2.2 server
release. We've worked with the Jetty project to integrate Jetty
7, including jaspi support.

SPECS
Work has begun to implement some of the draft JavaEE 6 spec api
jars. This has been complicated by the fact that some Specs are
using outdated templates with restrictive licensing
terms. Hopefully, this will be fixed soon. There are other
issues, such as undocumented updates to jsr250 (annotations) for
among other things the servlet 3.0 spec.

SANDBOX
An implementation of the OSGi Blueprint specification has been
largely completed. With the intent of using the implementation
within a future version of the Geronimo server.

POLICY CHANGES
The community discussed using the Apache Nexus installation for
release and snapshot staging/deployment. The community decided to
hold off on switching to this new process until after the
Geronimo Server 2.1.4 release. As 2.1.4 was released, we have
begun using Apache Nexus.

COMMUNITY
We received the JSR-196 (jaspi) tck from sun and have received
one update based on a challenge we filed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Hadoop Project

Hadoop status report for April to July 2009.

Hadoop is a set of related tools and frameworks for creating and
managing distributed applications running on clusters of commodity
computers.

The Hadoop Summit '09 was held in Santa Clara on June 10 and was
attended by more than 750 people. Registration for the event was
$100. The morning was a general track and the afternoon had 3 tracks:
developers, administration, and applications. Cloudera and Yahoo also
offered two free Hadoop training sessions (basics and advanced) the
following day that were filled very quickly.

Two books were published about Hadoop:
  * Hadoop: The Definitive Guide by Tom White
    http://www.hadoopbook.com/
  * Pro Hadoop by Jason Venner
    http://developers.apress.com/book/view/9781430219422 

AVRO

Avro is an inter-language serialization and RPC library that supports
versioning of schemas and protocols for both compiled and interpreted
languages.

Releases:
  * coming soon release 1.0.0 with 52 jiras addressed from 12
    contributors

CHUKWA

Chukwa is a distributed log collection framework that aggregates logs
from across a cluster into a reasonable number of HDFS files.

Releases:
  * release 0.1.2 on 14/May/2009 with 132 issues
  * currently voting on release 0.2.0 with 56 issues

COMMON (was previously Core)

Common is the shared libraries for HDFS and map/reduce. 

This quarter we split the Core subproject into Common, HDFS, and
Map/Reduce. The old branches and releases are in Common, but for 0.21
in the three subprojects will release independently.

Releases:
  * release 0.20.0 on 22/Apr/09 with 114 issues
  * currently voting on 0.19.2 with 42 issues

Community:
  * 784 subscribers on common-dev
  * 1703 subscribers on common-user

HBASE

HBase is a distributed column-oriented database, build on top of
Hadoop Common and HDFS.

Releases:
  * release 0.19.2 on 09/May/09 - 17 issues addressed by this release
  * release 0.19.3 on 27/May/09 - 15 issues addressed by this release
  * release 0.20.0 (alpha) on 17/Jun/09
  * coming soon release 0.20.9 with 338 out of 354 issues addressed

New Committers:
  * Andrew Purtell (previously missed from the board report)
  * Nitay Joffe
  * Ryan Rawson
  * Jonathan Gray

3. Current state of community
  * 23 active comtributors (159 contributors since project inception)
  * 459 subscribers to hbase-user mailing list
  * 185 subscribers to hbase-dev mailing list

HDFS

HDFS is a distributed file system that support reliable replicated
storage across the cluster using a single name space.

A developer meet for Hadoop was held at the Yahoo Sunnyvale campus to
discuss requirements for HDFS Appends. It was well represented by
about 15 contributors from Yahoo, Microsoft, Facebook, etc. Another
developer meet was held at the Cloudera campus in Burlingame. This
meet discussed, among others, a few short-term HDFS issues that need
attention.

Community:
  * 50 subscribers on hdfs-dev
  * 51 subscribers on hdfs-user

HIVE

Hive is a data warehouse written on top of Hadoop Core. It provides a SQL
to query and manage data stored in hadoop in table and partitions.

Releases:
  * release 0.3.0 on 29/Apr/09 with 52 issues
  * coming soon release 0.4.0 in the next month with 130 issues
 At present there are 248 open issues filed against Hive.

Committers:
  * Yongqiang He

Community:
  * 30 contributors (up from 21 in the last report)
  * 67 people have commented on Hive Jiras

MAP/REDUCE

Map/reduce is a distribute computation framework for easily writing
applications that process large volumes of data.

Community:
  * 51 subscribers to mapreduce-dev
  * 56 subscribers to mapreduce-user

PIG

Pig is a platform for analyzing large data sets that consists of a
high-level language for expressing data analysis programs, coupled
with infrastructure for evaluating these programs.

Releases:
  * release 0.3.0 on 25/Jun/09 with 33 issues

Community:
  * 144 subscribers on pig-dev
  * 269 subscribers on pig-user

ZOOKEEPER

ZooKeeper is a reliable coordination service for distributed
applications.

Releases:
  * release 3.2.0 on 8/Jul/09.
      A number of major new features are included, in particular;
    extending the client libraries to include common ZK use cases
    (recipes), namespace support, added python binding support, REST
    based API to the server, Perl binding support, numerous
    optimizations and bug fixes (122 JIRAs in this release).

Community:
  * 83 subscribers on zookeeper-dev
  * 141 subscribers on zookeeper-user

Feedback and community involvement has been slowly increasing, we
frequently meet with users during Hadoop meetups and hold site visits.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The past month has gone well within the Incubator.  Busy, but good.

A number of new committers have been added to projects that were in need of
them.

Sanselan has moved to the Apache Commons project.

VXQuery (http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/VXQueryProposal) is starting
Incubation.

Traffic Server (http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/TrafficServerProposal)
should be doing so soon, as well, and has attracted considerable interest
from the HTTP Server Project.

Extensive discussion amongst the Incubator PMC regarding Bluesky.  There are
definitely some concerns.  Bill Stoddard had a face-to-face meeting with the
team.  With great respect to Bill, we are following his lead on Bluesky, as
he is actively engaged.

--------------------------

= Ace =

Apache ACE is a software distribution framework that allows you to centrally
manage and distribute software components, configuration data and other
artifacts to target systems. ACE started incubation on April 24th 2009.

There are currently no issues requiring board or Incubator PMC attention.

Community

 * The Software Grant is on record now, so the initial codebase was imported
and work has started (packages renamed, license headers in place).
 * Documentation has been migrated, entered into the official wiki, now all
setup tasks are resolved.
 * Accepted patches and implemented feedback from both Toni Menzel and
Angelo van der Sijpt.
 * Niclas Hedhman has stepped down as a mentor, and has notified the
incubator PMC. Bertrand Delacretaz replied, suggesting we move on with the
two remaining mentors, Bertrand and Carsten Ziegeler. See [1] and [2].
 * Work has started on implementing a web based client UI for the project.

[1]
http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-general/200907.mbox/%3cca
f30e2a0907022107s6ef28a82g85acf6e9326d90db@mail.gmail.com%3e

[2]
http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-general/200907.mbox/%3cf7
67f0600907060146t3d951bedxd155bd1d76b3b00e@mail.gmail.com%3e

Software

 * Software grant was faxed and is on record now.
 * Atlassian gave us access to their open source build server Bamboo, so we
now have a continuous build system in place.

Licensing and other issues: None at the moment.


= Bluesky =

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

During the past month, we've been still focusing on replacing FFmpeg and I
forecast pretty progress in the next two months. A huge mistake, which we,
shamefully, hadn't noticed all along, had been found out. It surely is
acceptable to our group, but it violates the rules of Apache. We are
planning to apply for more committers and accounts to correct this mistake.

Next step: replacing FFmpeg


= Chemistry =

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide a Java (and possibly others, like
JavaScript) implementation of the upcoming CMIS specification. Chemistry
entered incubation on April 30th, 2009.

There are currently no issues requiring board or Incubator PMC attention.

Community
   * David Caruana has been voted in as committer and member of the PPMC.

Software
   * David Caruana offered contribution of Client Test Harness

Licensing and other issues

   * None at the moment.

Issues before graduation
   * Stabilize the general interest into a sustainable development
community
   * Make sure that all licensing details conform with Apache policies
   * Create an Apache release of the Chemistry codebase


= Empire-db =

DID NOT REPORT


= Imperius =

Imperius has been incubating since November 2007.

Imperius is a rule-based policy evaluation engine

Web site:

Code: Development and bug fixes continue on the code base.

Community:  Several key bugs were fixed, two new committers were added to
the community. Size and diversity of the community has not been improving as
expected.


= JSPWiki =

JSPWiki has been incubating since September 2007.

JSPWiki is a JSP-based wiki program.

During the past three months, the JSPWiki community has not increased
significantly. The developer list now has 83 names, one more than the last
time, and the user list is now 178 people strong, eleven more than three
months ago.

We are completing the checklist on the graduation, but things have slowed
down due to developers taking time on personal issues - some get married,
some get children, some just enjoy holidays.  JSPWiki is still fully a
volunteer project, which shows. The checklist is kept in JIRA, at
http://is.gd/1qkV8

Most of the checklist items are of practical nature rather than real
showstoppers; there is some uncertainty as to when things can be called
"done".

The development of the 3.0 still continues in the SVN, albeit at a reduced
speed due to the aforementioned issues.


= Lucene.Net =

DID NOT REPORT


= Olio =

Olio has been incubating since September 2008.

Olio is a web 2.0 toolkit to help developers evaluate the suitability,
functionality and performance of various web technologies by implementing a
reasonably complex application in several different technologies.

Olio voted a new committer, Amanda Waite.

Olio made its first release, Olio-0.1. Being a complex piece of software
with many third party dependencies and multiple languages, this was a major
task.

Olio is continuing to gain users and being used for diverse purposes.  There
are 28 subscribers to the user list and 26 subscribers to dev.  There are
over a hundred JIRA issues filed, and continuous activity toward closing
them.

The Java implementation for Olio has been checked into the repository,
joining the Rails and PHP implementations.

Graduation From Incubation:

Diversity of committers is the primary issue with the project, with all of
the active developers coming from three organizations.


= RCF =

DID NOT REPORT


= Sanselan =

Sanselan has graduated to a sub-project of Apache Commons. This will be the
last report in the incubator.

Active committers on the project have been voted committer status in
Commons. The project infrastructure (mail lists, repository, and web site)
are being migrated to Commons.


= Shiro =

Previously JSecurity/Ki.

Apache Shiro is a powerful and flexible open-source application security
framework that cleanly handles authentication, authorization, enterprise
session management and cryptography.

Apache Shiro has been incubating since June 2008.

* Due to potential naming conflicts with the previously chosen name of 'Ki',
the ASF community at large helped us change our name to 'Shiro'.  This was a
large collaborative effort that really showed the power of the Apache Way
and resulted in a name with which a large majority of people were content.

* Project infrastructure has been switched over to support this name change
and all seems to be running well.  We have yet to properly configure Hudson
for continuous integration builds, but that should be done shortly.  The new
CWIKI space is available here:
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/SHIRO

* The name change also affords us to start publishing incubator Maven
snapshot builds which will help foster adoption to all Maven end-users
(which there are many).

* We're very happy to report that the the name change and community support
resulting from it have allowed the development team to return focus to
developing the framework and resolving issues rather than spending time on
name-related administrative issues.

The project team is not considering graduation at this point, as the code is
not ready for an Apache release. Once IP clearance is complete, and Maven
snapshots are working, we'll attempt our first incubator release.

The status is being maintained at
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/incubator/shiro/STATUS


= Socialsite =

DID NOT REPORT


= Tashi =

Tashi has been incubating since September 2008.

The Tashi project aims to build a software infrastructure for cloud
computing on massive internet-scale datasets (what we call Big Data). The
idea is to build a cluster management system that enables the Big Data that
are stored in a cluster/data center to be accessed, shared, manipulated, and
computed on by remote users in a convenient, efficient, and safe manner.

Development activities have included adding a locality and layout service,
integrating metrics into ganglia for monitoring, more complicated network
isolation support, and preliminary code for the purpose of communicating
with Maui, a cluster scheduler.  Additionally, the documentation has been
enhanced on the project webpage.

The project is still struggling to grow a substantial user community, but
there are several active contributors.  We are looking forward to the
opportunity to present our work with PRS and Hadoop at SC'09 [1].  In
addition, Tashi is deployed at Intel's OpenCirrus [2] site where it has more
than 20 users.  It is also being installed at CMU's OpenCirrus site.

Items to be resolved before graduation:
       * Prepare and review a release candidate
       * Develop community diversity (currently Intel and CMU committers)

[1] http://scyourway.nacse.org/conference/view/tut168

[2] http://opencirrus.org/


= Thrift =

IPMC reviews: Upayavira

Thrift is a software framework for scalable cross-language services
development. It combines a software stack with a code generation engine to
build services that work efficiently and seamlessly between a variety of
programming languages. Thrift entered the Apache Incubator in May 2008.

Recent Activity of Note:

 * Have created RC1 and RC2 for our 0.1 release, still waiting on votes to
finalize RC2
   * Next step after approval is to present to the Incubator PMC
 * Esteve Fernandez and Alexander Shigin both received passing votes for
committership!
 * Progress made on non-blocking C++ server
 * New language support for compact protocol
 * Work started on an ActionScript generator
 * Java configuration/install process improved
 * Simplified compiler installation process via dependency removal
 * More in-depth comparative analysis of Thrift vs. similar serialization
platforms

Biggest next step for considering graduation is getting the release out
successfully. Licensing issues all seem to be in good shape with no legal
issues.


= UIMA =

UIMA is a component framework for the analysis of unstructured content such
as text, audio and video. UIMA entered incubation on October 3, 2006.

Some recent activity:
   * We're happy to report that Jukka Zitting has taken an interest in UIMA
and is trying to egg us along towards graduation.
   * We're planning another release this summer, and are thus currently
trying to get the code and build process in shape.
   * The CAS Editor was moved from the sandbox to our core Eclipse-based
tooling.
   * A lot of activity hardening the Asynchronous Scaleout component,
getting it ready for release as well.
   * A newly donated annotator component, the Configurable Feature
Extractor, entered the sandbox
   * The Concept Mapper annotator component received a major update (also
in the Sandbox)

Items to complete before graduation:

   * We still need to attract more new committers with diverse
affiliations.
     We have recently seen some activity in that direction and hope we're
on a good way.


= Wink =

Apache Wink is an incubating project that enables development and
consumption of REST style web services. The core server runtime is based on
the JAX-RS (JSR 311) standard. The project also introduces a client runtime
which can leverage certain components of the server-side runtime. Apache
Wink will deliver component technology that can be easily integrated into a
variety of environments.  Wink has been incubating since May 2009.

Notable activity in the Wink project:

 * Source base selected: Both IBM and HP contributed JAX-RS-based runtimes
to the project.  To get things rolling, one had to be selected as the basis
of the trunk.  After some discussion, the decision was to go with the HP
runtime due to its maturity (runtime has been worked for at least 2 years)
over the IBM code and the richness of features.

 * JAX-RS 1.0 compliance: There was work done to get the JAX-RS 1.0 TCK up
and running with Wink.  Thanks to Dan Kulp from CXF for reaching out and
helping the team get that working.  Michael Elman led an effort to get the
necessary JIRAs opened and addressed.  In short order, we became JAX-RS 1.0
compliant on the new source base.

 * 58 JIRAs opened in a little over a month's time.  Some of the were
related to the JAX-RS 1.0 work.  Others have been related to issues surfaced
as the test bucket that IBM contributed has been ported over along with
issues for making sure the runtime is Apache branded.

 * Build automation was setup via Hudson with snapshot builds being updated
in the maven repository.

Things to resolve prior to graduating:

 *  Need to create the first formal release after some JIRA issues are
finished and some more ported tests are complete

 *  Need to grow the user based community


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

Jakarta status report for June to July 2009.

Jakarta submitted a follow-up report to the Board last month. Therefore,
this report covers the last month of activity in Jakarta.

- New Chair -

The Jakarta PMC has voted in a new Chair, Rahul Akolkar. The corresponding
resolution has been submitted to the Board for consideration at the July
meeting.

- Releases -

* JMeter 2.3.4 - June 21, 2009

- BCEL -

Occasional post to the user list last month - otherwise quiet, in
maintenance mode.

- BSF -

No activity to report since release reported last month (3.0 beta3).

- Cactus -

Few user list posts, one new JIRA issue. No dev activity last month.

- ECS -

No activity - maintenance mode.

- JCS -

Handful posts to the mailing lists, no development activity last month.

- JMeter -

JMeter user list is quite busy.

Sebb continues to make many improvements. There have been a few new Bugzilla
reports, most notable being a potential contribution in #47474.

JMeter 2.3.4 was released on June 21st.

- ORO -

No activity - maintenance mode.

- Regexp -

No activity - maintenance mode.

- Taglibs -

Henri Yandell continues to make many improvements to the Taglibs build and
the Standard and String Taglibs in particular.

Potentially, the active parts in Taglibs may move to be part of Tomcat in
the near future. Pasting part of Henri's recent email to the taglibs-dev
list:

<paste>
The general idea is:
* Move Standard, JSTL implementation, over to Tomcat. 1.0 would be
  deprecated.
* Move RDC over to Tomcat.
* Start a new taglib (my new favourite name is Extended; ie: Apache
  Extended Taglib to complement the Apache Standard Taglib) that is built
  from the undeprecated parts of Taglibs that find favour. Some might be
  refactored from Taglibs to EL functions. Think the Commons Lang of
  Taglibs.
* Other taglibs to be retired within Jakarta and make their way over to
  the Apache Attic.
</paste>

Accordingly, the Extended Taglib has been created in the Taglibs sandbox.

- Retired Projects -

* Slide


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache JAMES Project

Another steady quarter for James,

There have been three releases this period:

Apache jSPF version 0.9.7
Apache Crypto Mailets 1.0
Apache JSieve 0.3

And four changes to the pmc
We've added Markus Wiederkeher

And removed:
Charles Bennet   <charlesb@apache.org>
Jason Webb       <jasonw@apache.org>
Peter Goldstein  <pgoldstein@apache.org>

Who have been inactive and did not respond to email requests to
confirm their status.

There is no other significant news from the project.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

Prepared but not submitted.  Postponed until next month.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

* General & Release

Another MINA bug fix release was done (2.0.0-M6). The current goal is
to produce an RC release, trying to squeeze all the remaining issues,
while starting to produce a wish list for 3.0. Look like the MINA
developers are actually quite busy on other subjects, so it's not moving
very fast.

FtpServer released 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 two bug fix releases.

SSHD made its first release the 0.1.0 ! The project is still maturing
and the APIs are not to be considered stable.

Vysper is growing fast and discussions are conducted for moving it out
of the sandbox. A vote is about to be started.

* Community

Two new committers : Michael Jakl (focused on Vysper) and Shawn
Pearce (focused of SSHD) was voted in.

Benrd Fondermann and Guillaume Nodet was added to the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

= Summary =
 * Some community changes
 * New releases
 * Discussions

= Community =
 * New committer:
  * Michael Concini 
  * another vote just passed, invitation has been sent out
 * No new PMC members,
 * Some new contributors

= Releases =
 * MyFaces (sub) projects with new releases since the last report:
  * MyFaces Core 1.2.7
  * MyFaces Core 1.1.7
  * MyFaces Extensions Validator 1.1.2
  * MyFaces Extensions Validator 1.2.2
  * MyFaces Tobago 1.0.21
  * MyFaces Tomahawk 1.1.9

= Discussions =
 * discussion to add a second MyFaces member to the JavaServer Faces
Expert Group (JSR 314). No response from Ed Burns (spec lead) so far.
 * Longer vote was done to replace the used logging; Not the entire
MyFaces community agrees to force all subproject to use the same
logger tool. Vote was stopped; More to come...
 * SVN structure change for MyFaces CORE has been approved.
The SVN change hasn't been done yet.
The community also expressed interest in having a GIT mirror. 
 * MyFaces 2.0 is still getting more attention. The new committers are
active in this area; Contributions (mailing list / JIRA) are coming in
from the wider community as well


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache ODE Project

There are no specific issue relevant to the board at the moment.

Release

We've released a new incremental version of our stable branch, ODE 1.3.2.
Now only bug fixes should be committed there and we'll be concentrating
more and more on stabilizing our 2.0 branch.

Development

Mostly incremental features on 2.0, both on a few remaining parts of
BPEL that weren't supported and on useful extensions.

Community

We've voted in a new committer, Rafal Rusin, who had already been active
for a while. He has been ramping up his contributions and we all felt he
fully deserved the status of committer at this point.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache OpenEJB Project

OpenEJB 3.1.1 was released in June.  The release contained a mix of
improvements and fixes.  Overall it was very well received and very
anticipated as the last trunk release was in October 2008.  More frequent dot
releases are planned and a 3.1.2 will hopefully be not too far behind.

Project participation in blogs.apache.org started up in April and has been
fairly successful with about seven posts so far.  Some effort has gone into
creating a convenient way that blog posts can be staged for community review
before being posted.  The result has proven to be very easy and not
cumbersome which directly contributes to the number of posts in the last two
months or so.  Two screencasts, the first of many hopefully, were also added
and published through the blog.

Jean-Louis Monteiro was voted in as a committer in June.  The project is
extremely happy to have him as a committer and very much enjoys his work and
overall contributions in the community.  Congratulations, Jean-Louis!

Preparation has been underway to do a first release of the OpenEJB Eclipse
Plugin.  As part of the work in preparing the release files, discussion
started at the beginning of the month on adding the release manager and
majority contributor to the plugin, Jonathan Gallimore, to the project PMC
for better oversight.  The discussion was started on the dev list carefully
and deliberately with so far very healthy and positive results.  A vote for
his addition to the PMC is now underway on the dev list, the first of
hopefully many open PMC votes.  A big compliment to the community to whose
amazing openness, mutual respect, and overall friendliness makes this kind of
thing possible.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache OpenJPA Project

Highlights

OpenJPA continues to implement the latest JPA 2.0 JSR-317, which is in
Proposed Final Draft status. The latest draft was issued 13-March-2009 and
contains several very large changes that will keep the project busy for
another few months. Additionally, the spec has continued to evolve after
the publication of the PFD.

OpenJPA still has a Field Of Use problem with the draft JPA 2.0 specification
license.  The license contains language restricting distribution of the early
implementation of JSR-317. The way we read this is that OpenJPA will be
unable to offer an early release of OpenJPA that supports JPA 2.0 until
and unless 2.(iii) is amended to remove the clause "is made available for
testing and evaluation purposes only".

This issue was raised with Geir Magnusson, Apache VP, JCP on February 3, 2009,
and is still unresolved.

Community

Donald Woods was offered, and he accepted, committer status on the project.

Mailing lists continue to be very active, with an average of close to 500
messages per month on the dev alias and approximately 250 messages per
month on the users alias.

OpenJPA continues to experience a modest increase in email subscriptions and
activity. There are over 150 subscribers to dev and over 225 to users.

A vote is underway for a logo for OpenJPA, with 15 entries. Information here:
http://cwiki.apache.org/openjpa/logo-contest.html

A vote to change the maximum line length for source files resulted in
allowing 120 character lines. We do bike sheds too.

The community is working well together. Questions from the community
are answered promptly, often resulting in a JIRA being filed.

Governance

The PMC continues to track contributors with an eye toward making them
committers, and committers PMC members.

Releases

none this quarter


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: intentionally blank


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Sling Project

Sling is an OSGI-based scriptable web framework that uses a Java Content
Repository, such as Apache Jackrabbit, to store and manage content.

Sling graduated as a TLP on June 17th, 2009.

There are no issues which require board attention at the moment.

Community

* Sling graduated on June 17th, 2009.
* Transition has completed smoothly. Thanks to Jukka and JoeS for
  their support.
* Ian Boston was added as a committer.

Software

* Sling Commons MIME type support 2.1.0-incubator has been released as
  of May, 18th, 2009.
* Mike Mueller with the help of community members has started
  reorganizing and greatly enhancing the documentation on the site.
* Sling Parent POM 6 has been released as of July, 3rd, 2009.

Licensing and other issues

* none


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- we added three new committers to the ASF and the project:
  Alex Broens, John Hardin and Henrik Krohns; congrats to them!

- a push for a 3.3 release has begun, 3.3.0-alpha1 is out

- the mailing lists have their usually flow of questions and
  answers, which is good

- Karsten Braeckelmann (availid KB) volunteered to be a mailing
  list moderator, which is also good :)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

This last quarter has been slow in terms of releases, but development
activity on Struts 2 has continued apace. We released Struts Master 5,
a formal build artifact, but our expected Struts 2.1.7 release did not
make it due to problems identified in the build. Two Struts 2 plugins,
OSGi and OVal, were promoted out of our sandbox and into the main repo.
There was no activity on Struts 1 this quarter.

After some experimentation, Struts 2 has been shown to run on Google's
App Engine. Thanks in part to some urging by the Struts community, IBM
WebSphere is now available to developers, which will help with our
testing and debugging. And git mirrors have been created at the ASF
for Struts 1, Struts 2 and the Struts sandbox.

During the quarter, we added Lukasz Lenart as a committer, but made no
changes to the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

The Tapestry Project released Tapestry 5.1 on May 6. Tapestry 5.1 is a new
stable release for the Tapestry 5 code base; this was a significant upgrade
of Tapestry 5 in terms of functionality and performance. This was also a
chance to demonstrate Tapestry's new commitment to backwards compatibility,
with most users seeing a very easy upgrade from 5.0 to 5.1.

Bug fixing has started for a forthcoming 5.2 release with some effort
underway to ensure that Tapestry 5 can be deployed inside Google
Application Engine. We are also considering a dot release for 5.1
to make it compatible for Google Application Engine.

The newest committers, Thiago and Robert, are also the most active (after
Howard).

In addition, a new initiative to fill the documentation gap for Tapestry
is underway. This has long been identified as the primary limitation of
Tapestry: there is no good, comprehensive tutorial and cookbook for new
users (free or otherwise), just detailed reference documentation. Howard
is committed to working on documentation before switching gears to 5.2
coding.

Tapestry 3 and Tapestry 4 are unofficially dead; there is limited support
available on the mailing lists, but none of the committers have
bandwidth for maintaining or evolving the code.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

As always, not much activity to report.

We voted to release a new version of Websh, which will probably happen "soon".

We added a mod_tcl committer, who aims to pick up that project where
it was left off.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Notable Happenings / Summary

Aside from a number of releases, the "big question" for the Web Services
community has been deciding the eventual organization of the project. We
have had some good discussion and started a wiki page to capture thoughts:

http://wiki.apache.org/ws/FrontPage/WebServicesPMCReorg

Please check it out, and feel free to inject comments if appropriate.

It was our hope to have reached a consensus by the July board meeting, but
we aren't quite ready to declare victory. There is at least one proponent
of leaving the project as-is, and then a couple of slightly different
proposals for splitting it up with support from various chunks of the team.
Discussion is ongoing.

The last time we tried to do this, the chair tried to start a VOTE in order
to focus opinions, but it ended up feeling too early for most people and we
couldn't reach a solid decision. This time we're hoping to achieve true
consensus among the group, and we haven't gotten there yet. Based on the
increasing focus of the discussion, I would hope we can finish this up and
have some resolutions (if appropriate) by September's board report.

In the meanwhile technical work continues in all of our sub-communities,
and we've had a number of releases and improvements.

Code Releases [since the last report]

* jUDDI 3.0.0 beta
* Scout 1.0.0
* Axis2 1.5
* XmlSchema 1.4.5
* Wss4j 1.5.7
* Axis2/C 1.6.0
* Rampart/C 1.3.0

Subproject News

No news below means nothing particularly notable for the board occurred
this quarter.

Apache Axis2

Apache Axis2 is the third generation Web service framework of the Apache
Web service stack. A highly extensible message processing engine focused on
SOAP messages, it includes plugins for services, transports,
MessageReceivers, and Modules (message interceptors).

Version 1.5 was released, but a few issues have arisen since then, as well
as some major fixes like a connection starvation problem, so a 1.5.1
release is likely around the corner as well. We also need to do a real
release of the transports now that they're factored into separate projects
under commons.

Kandula

Apache Kandula is an implementation of Web Services Coordination, Atomic
Transaction and Business Activity protocols. The project provides
implementations for both Apache Axis (kandula-1 branch) and Apache Axis2
(kandula-2 branch) platforms.

Apache Axis

Apache Axis is a web services framework implementing the W3C SOAP standard.

Apache Woden

Woden is an open source Java implementation of the W3C WSDL 2.0
specification.

JaxMe2

JaxMe 2 is an open source implementation of JAXB, the specification for
Java/XML binding.

Apache Scout

Apache Scout is an implementation of the JSR 93 (JAXR), which is a java API
to XML registries such as jUDDI. Scout released version 1.0. Scout
implements the required (level 0) part of the specification, which means
that is can talk to any UDDI-2.0 compliant Registry.

Apache jUDDI

jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the
Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI) specification for
Web Services.

jUDDI released version 3.0.0.beta, which implements the final two UDDI API
implementations targeted for the 3.0.0 release; "Subscription" and "Custody
transfer". Subscriptions allow the users to register for updates in the
Registry. The registry sends out notifications by calling an endpoint
defined at registration time. The generic UDDI client now supports InVM
transport to allow jUDDI to run in embedded mode. Work on a UDDI console
has started, the console implements a number of portlets using GWT. The
juddi-portal-bundle pre-deploys the portlets to an Apache Pluto Portal.

Apache Rampart

Rampart provides the WS-Security and WS-SecureConversation support for
Apache Axis2 using Apache WSS4J as the base. The configuration model uses
the WS-Policy framework and supports WS-SecurityPolicy specification. The
"Rahas" module in Rampart implements the WS-Trust specification with a
security token service implementation and a client API to carry out token
exchanges with the security token service.

Apache Rampart/C

Apache Rampart/C is the security module for Apache Axis2/C. It's an effort
to implement WS-Security Specification 1.0. Rampart/C also comes with an
XML-Crypto library known as OMXMLSecurity. In addition Apache Rampart/C
configurations are based on security policy assertions as per WS-Security
Policy specification 1.1

Apache Sandesha2

Sandesha2 is an implementation of WS-ReliableMessaging specifications for
Apache Axis2. By using Sandesha2 you can add reliable messaging capability
to the Web services you have hosted in Axis2. You can also use Sandesha2
with Axis2 client to interact with already hosted web services in a
reliable manner.

Apache Sandesha2/C

Sandesha2/C is a C implementation of WS-ReliableMessaging
specifications(both 1.0 and 1.1) for Apache Axis2/C projects. Sandesha2/C
is inter operable with Axis2/Java implementation and .net implementations.

Apache Savan

Savan is a Publisher/Subscriber implementation for Apache Axis2.

Apache Savan/C

Savan/C is a Publisher/Subscriber implementation for Apache Axis2/C
projects written in C Language.

Apache Axis2/C

Apache Axis2/C is an effort to implement Axis2 architecture in C. Apache
Axis2/C can be used to provide and consume Web Services.

Apache WSIF

Apache Web Services Invocation Framework (WSIF) is a simple Java API for
invoking Web services, no matter how or where the services are provided as
long as it is described in WSDL.

Apache WS-Commons

Apache WS-Commons is a collection of projects that are primarily used as
parts of various WS projects but useful even outside the WS space.
WS-Commons houses Apache Axiom - the streaming XML object model, Apache
XmlSchema - an object model to manipulate XML schema documents, Apache
Neethi - the WS-Policy implementation and various other smaller projects
such as tcpmon.

Apache Muse

Apache Muse is a Java implementation of WS-ResourceFramework,
WS-Notification, and WS-DistributedManagement. It provides code generation
tools and APIs that aid users in creating standards-compliant interfaces
for manageable resources. Muse-based interfaces can be deployed in a J2EE
or OSGi environment.

Apache XML-RPC

Apache XML-RPC is a Java implementation of XML-RPC, a popular protocol that
uses XML over HTTP to implement remote procedure calls.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

(updated from June report that missed the deadline)

This last quarter was a usual quarter for XMLBeans. There were commits with
bugs fixes and a few new features, notably a patch for a new feature from a
non committer contributor. Activity on the mailing lists continue at the
same levels, there are always new users asking but also answering
questions.

Out of the ordinary, XMLBeans PMC is sponsoring the proposal of Apache
VXQuery project for incubation. At this moment the proposal has met the
requirements of the Incubator PMC.

There were no new committers or PMC changes, and no new releases this
quarter. There are no other matters requiring board's attention.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the July 15, 2009 board meeting.
