                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                         September 23, 2009


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 2:00pm (Pacific) and began at
    2:02 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and SpringSource.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Brett Porter
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        Brian McCallister

    Officers Present:

        Paul Querna
        Sam Ruby
        Sander Striker
        Jukka Zitting

    Officers Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        none

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of April 15, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_04_15.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. The meeting of July 15, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_07_15.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. The meeting of August 19, 2009

       See: board_minutes_2009_08_19.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       We are in the process of finalizing plans for our board "get-
       together", set for November 1st. There are 2 candidate locations for
       the event: one in Napa Valley and another closer to to the Oakland
       area. You will see that this is a discussion item for later on.
       
       I have renewed our D&O Insurance; we remain with the same broker and
       same coverage but the price is a little less than last year.
       
       Kudos to Infra for handling the security incident with speed,
       professionalism and openness.
       
       The board list has been mostly quiet this month, but there is a lot
       of foundation work being done at the PMC and committee level, and the
       level of activity is quite nice. This is especially true in TAC, PRC
       and even Incubator (as related to foundation-issue). Even so, the main
       concern at present still seems to be documentation of all existing
       policies, since there are still some that lack a single definitive
       "write-up" of such, resulting in the mistaken conclusion that either
       non-exists or there is no consensus. This has been obvious within PRC
       but also within Incubator as well. Again, kudos to both entities for
       closing this loop.
       
       Two interviews with myself were published within the last month, one
       with Linux.com and another with eWeek. Also, Justin, Sally and I had
       a general talk with Microsoft (Sam Ramji and Robert Duffner) about
       several topics, including ASF sponsorship renewal, their sponsorship
       of ApacheCon and their hopes for feedback and insight regarding their
       CodePlex foundation.
       
       My email summary of the board meeting will now go to committers@
       instead of members@.

       At the risk of (re)opening a can-of-worms, I'd like reboot the EA
       effort. You will also see that PRC is discussing a re-organization,
       and we should discuss if there are any reorgs which we would find
       unacceptable.
       
       We had delayed officer appointments until this month, but I have not
       seen any requests to follow up with this; my hope is that it is because
       the current set of officers are doing well enough and not because of
       apathy. Whatever the case, I am certainly willing to remain Chairman
       and, should we decide to schedule appointments, would be willing to
       accept any nomination to remain so. In any case, we should decide
       whether we want to schedule appointments and when.

    B. President [Justin]

       I am now getting back up to speed after completing my PhD.

       In the absence of a PRC VP, I've tried to help keep the PRC going
       by organizing a weekly phone call and suggesting a reorganization.
       I believe the weekly phone call has helped a little bit; minutes are
       posted to the PRC list after the call for those who can not attend.
       The discussions for reorganization of the PRC continue, but a
       clear consensus may not emerge in a timely manner.  As requested
       in the PRC report, if the Board has any thoughts about how they
       would like to see the PRC structured, this information would be a
       useful addition to the discussions the PRC is having now.

       I have continued talking to reporters about our 10th anniversary
       and a number of articles (generally positive) have now been published.
       The PRC continues to line up press contacts for me (and others) to
       help spread the word.  I also expect that there should be a press
       presence at ApacheCon in early November, so I expect a repeat of
       the chaos that was OSCON for Sander and myself.  If some Directors
       are willing to share the press load (and be subject to scheduling
       by PRC and PageOne teams), please let the PRC know.

       I have accepted an invitation to talk at an internal SAP event in
       November.  SAP is starting to contribute to some Apache projects
       and would like to have me come out and brief them on our ecosystem
       of projects.

       As part of my ConCom activities, I'm helping to coordinate an event
       in Asia for Nov/Dec - more info is in the ConCom report.  Besides
       helping our Asian committers meet and interact with other locals,
       I hope that this event will continue to set an example as to how we
       can run smaller events in the future.

       I look forward to Jim rebooting the EA discussions.  My position
       remains unchanged - I believe we do need some more resources to
       help run the 'back-end' of the organization more effectively.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2009-09-22 for checking,
      savings and credit card accounts.

      Contributions:
       - Current PayPal balance as of 9/22 is $12,903.71. Contributions via
         PayPal for August 2009 were $179.18.  This is not reflected in
         statement of position below.
       - Working with both YHOO and MSFT for platinum sponsorship invoicing/PO-ing
         form-filling, etc

      Tasks Done:
       - all approved bills are paid.  There is a bill in received from Land's
         End for goods purchased by a Anne Anacker.  No idea what this is.
       - wired $4700 to Wyona for video services at ACEU09
       - wired $1300 to Weiner for insurance
       - Extension filed for 2009 taxes on 9/14
       - got clarity on bank failure risk (believed to be zero) for our cash reserves

      In Progress:
       - Getting thank-you info together for Phil.  Failure on my part due to
         personal reasons, renewed focus now that work-surge is over.
       - 2009 Taxes    

      To Do:
       - explore options for parking cash if we want to get some out of WF
       - review switching from accrual to cash accounting


     1) Statement of Financial Income and Expense - August 2009 - Accrual Basis

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                       118.42  
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                   319.56     
              Total Contributions Income                            319.56  

           Total Income                                             437.98  

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                  320.13 
              Postage and Delivery                                   19.95 
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                   518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                    713.73 
                   Infrastructure Staff                6,000.00 
                Total Infrastructure                         7,231.73 

                Public Relations
                   Public Relations Staff              3,636.36   
                Total Public Relations                       3,636.36  

              Total Program Expenses                             10,868.09 

           Total Expense                                         11,208.17  

        Net Ordinary Income                                     -10,770.19 

     Net Income                                                 -10,770.19 


     2) Statement of Financial Position - As of Aug 31, 2009 - Accrual Basis

                                                     Aug 31, 09     Aug 31, 08      $ Change       % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Paypal                                    12,513.63         502.08      12,011.55       2,392.4%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account             167,521.60      84,918.46      82,603.14          97.3%
             Wells Fargo Savings                      284,410.81     157,938.87     126,471.94          80.1%
           Total Checking/Savings                     464,446.04     243,359.41     221,086.63          90.9%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                            0.00     200,000.00    -200,000.00        -100.0%
           Total Accounts Receivable                        0.00     200,000.00    -200,000.00        -100.0%

        Total Current Assets                          464,446.04     443,359.41      21,086.63           4.8%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                     464,446.04     443,359.41      21,086.63           4.8%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna             893.23           0.00         893.23         100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                     39.90       2,642.67      -2,602.77         -98.5%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz            1,002.96         534.89         468.07          87.5%
             Total Credit Cards                         1,936.09       3,177.56      -1,241.47         -39.1%

           Total Current Liabilities                    1,936.09       3,177.56      -1,241.47         -39.1%

        Total Liabilities                               1,936.09       3,177.56      -1,241.47         -39.1%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                          363,648.74     261,948.68     101,700.06          38.8%
           Net Income                                  98,861.21     178,233.17     -79,371.96         -44.5%
        Total Equity                                  462,509.95     440,181.85      22,328.10           5.1%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                       464,446.04     443,359.41      21,086.63           4.8%


       Geir will research how to pay Gavin, preferably automate.
       
       Discussed various options for obtaining modest amounts of cash
       for TAC.

    D. Secretary [Sam]

       Craig Russell continues to be an invaluable help, and processing
       time on inbound faxes continue to be consistently a matter of
       either same-day processing or at most a few days, through a 
       combination of automation and distributing the workload.

       We have one inquiry as to a missing CCLA, and I have requested
       more information.

       Draft minutes are current and all approved minutes are posted.

       I want to remind people that a number of executive officers and
       additional officers have "to_<name>" folders in the documents
       received folder in SVN that need to be attended to.

       I am willing to either continue as Secretary for another term or
       transition the role.

    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       As stated last month, I planned on this being a slow month for me.
       The only thing currently on the roster is speaking in Paris at Open
       World Forum.

       Greg and I failed to catch up on the EA effort, will set a time
       directly after the meeting.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    1. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

    2. W3C [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 2

       Sam and Jim to connect offline to coordinate Apache
       participation at TPac

    3. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 3

    4. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Brian]

       See Attachment 4

    5. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley / Brett]

       See Attachment 5

       Justin reports that sponsorship dollars specifically for events
       are hard to obtain at this time.
       
       Shane described the plans for the retreat.

    6. Apache Public Relations Project [null / Jim]

       See Attachment 6

       Brett noted that the PRC JIRA issues and actual access levels
       (PRC private) don't match.

    7. Apache Infrastructure Team [Paul Querna / Justin]

       See Attachment 7

    8. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Doug]

       See Attachment 8

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Garrett Rooney / Shane]

       No report provided.  Noted that Garrett had indicated an intention
       of stepping down and that development activity seems to have
       ceased.

    B. Apache APR Project [Bojan Smojver / Geir]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Archiva Project [Maria Odea Ching / Justin]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache Camel Project [Hadrian Zbarcea / Roy]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Greg]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache Commons Project [Phil Steitz / Geir]

       See Attachment F

       General discussion as to whether there should be a policy (or
       best practice) for linking items such as release announcements
       using ASF Infrastructure over alternatives (such as markmail).
       No action taken.

    G. Apache Excalibur Project [Carsten Ziegeler / Roy]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Felix Project [Richard Hall / Greg]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Brian]

       See Attachment I

       General discussion as to whether projects which don't have
       releases should be allowed to continue. In the case of Gump,
       folding into Infra was discussed as a potential alternative.
       No action was taken.

    J. Apache Harmony Project [Tim Ellison / Shane]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache iBATIS Project [Clinton Begin / Brett]

       No report provided due to having reported last month.

    L. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Jim]

       See Attachment L

       Jim to follow up to ensure that all podlings report on what
       they need to do for graduation

    M. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Jukka Zitting / Doug]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache Labs Project [Bernd Fondermann / Justin]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache Lucene Project [Grant Ingersoll / Jim]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache OFBiz Project [David E. Jones / Shane]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Portals Project [David Sean Taylor / Brett]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Roy]

       See Attachment R

       Roy to get with Carl and suggest improvements to the report
       meet what the board expects.

    S. Apache Quetzalcoatl Project [Gregory Trubetskoy / Geir]

       See Attachment S

       Geir to get with the chair to determine if this is expected to
       improve or if the project should be moved to the attic.

    T. Apache ServiceMix Project [Guillaume Nodet / Doug]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache Sling Project [Felix Meschberger / Greg]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daryl C. W. O'Shea / Brian]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Synapse Project [Paul Fremantle / Justin]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Geir]

       See Attachment X

       Board will continue to monitor this, and appreciates the
       candor.

    Y. Apache Tomcat Project [Mladen Turk / Jim]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache Velocity Project [Will Glass-Husain / Roy]

       No report provided.  Roy noted that this was the second month in
       a row without a report.

    AA. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Justin]

       See Attachment AA

       The board would like to see the splitting continue, and a suggestion
       was made to take Jakarta as an example of how to proceed (i.e, split
       out what is ready to stand alone now, and reassess after each split
       is done).

    AB. Apache Wicket Project [Martijn Dashorst / Shane]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Greg]

       See Attachment AC

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Budget $30,000 for the Conference Planning Committee

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has heretofore appointed a
       Apache Conference Planning Committee, and

       WHEREAS, the Apache Conference Planning Committee has
       chosen to hold an "Apache Retreat" for the benefit of Apache
       members, committers and contributors, in Ireland during April
       2010, and

       WHEREAS, the Apache Conference Planning Committee is working
       on plans to hold one or more Apache events, for the benefit of 
       Apache members, committers and contributors, in Asia, in
       November-December 2009, and
       
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors recognize that the aims
       and purpose of these events are in-line with the aims of the
       Foundation, and

       WHEREAS, the funding required for these events is estimated at
       approximately $12,000 for the Retreat, and $12,000 for the 
       events in Asia, and

       WHEREAS, the Conference Planning Committee judges it in the
       best interests of the contributors and the Foundation to
       have a small discretionary fund available to support other events,

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a budget of $30,000
       be allocated to the Conference Planning Committee, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the treasurer will work
       with the Conference Planning Committee to ensure that
       these funds are made available as necessary and duly
       accounted for in accordance with the Bylaws of the
       Foundation.

       Special Order 7A, Budget $30,000 for the Conference Planning
       Committee, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.


    B. Update Public Relations Committee Membership

       WHEREAS, the Public Relations Committee (PRC) of The Apache
       Software Foundation (ASF) expects to better serve its purpose
       through the periodic update of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the PRC is a Board-appointed committee whose
       membership must be approved by Board resolution; and

       WHEREAS, the Board is in receipt of Larry Rosen's resignation
       as a member of the PRC,
       
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following ASF
       member be removed from the list of Public Relations Committee
       members:

           Larry Rosen         <lrosen@rosenlaw.com>

       Special Order 7B, Update Public Relations Committee
       Membership, was approved by Unanimous Vote of the directors
       present.


 8. Discussion Items
 
    Location for the board get-together on 11/1 will be at Napa Valley,
    Doug to reconfirm availability of the location.  Jim to arrange
    for travel from Oakland.
    
    General discussion about the Membership input about Board Members
    (outside of the Chairman) not being Officers. No consensus.
    
    Reappointment of Officers deferred to December (after the F2F). The
    board decided not to appoint new officers, and by general consent
    reaffirmed the current officers appointment through December.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    o Jim: Review whether SCP has provided requested invoices to TAC
      * Complete.

    o Roy: Follow-up with Buildr on their use of git
      * Incomplete
      
    o Jim: Follow-up with AlexK regarding use of api@ list
      * Incomplete

    o Roy: Update /dev with rule that invitation only dev meetings are OK,
           provided that such meetings are discussed on the dev list, and
           that all committers are included.
      * Incomplete

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

    o Justin: For the curious, my dissertation materials are up at:
              http://www.erenkrantz.com/CREST/

    Congrats to Justin on his PhD.

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 3:21 a.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

The hiatus continues - the JCP is for all intents and purposes
in a bit of stasis waiting for Oracle's acquisition of Sun 
to complete.  The official line is that for trust reasons,
we're to continue to work as if nothing is happening between
the two companies.  It doesn't appear that anyone, including
the principals in the deal, is buying it, so we do very little.

I recently attended the quarterly Exec Committee face-to-face
meeting.  I don't recall anything of real relevancy to report
other than ME vendors working to try to re-establish life to
the ME platform.  In the age of Android where average 
devices are capable of running a SE-like stack, I don't think
that they're on the right track, but that's not an issue for
us or our communities at the moment.

Other than that, it's been quiet.  There are random requests
for TCK support, we've completed a questionnaire from the EC
regarding the ORCL/JAVA merger, and recently received a 
follow-up that I need to get to legal-internal@ and complete
this week.

Also, the agreement between Sun and the ASF regarding a blanket
fix to the Draft Spec License limitations is signed and delivered
to Sun, so that issue is closed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the ASF Rep. for W3C

The representative role is, as I see it, a fairly passive one. It is
to monitor what is going on within the W3C, as it would impact the
ASF, provide a single point of contact between the W3C and the ASF and
to provide some opportunities for the ASF and ASF members to coordinate
with W3C activities.

The link to the W3C public newsletter can be found here:

     http://www.w3.org/News/Public/pnews-20090907

Regarding member activities, the current "main event" is the upcoming
"Advisory Committee and Technical Plenary" which conflicts with ApacheCon.
I am hoping to take a day and attend, but that is most questionable at
this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

Active month (on the order of 4 dozen unique threads), but relatively free
of controversy; certainly nothing requiring board attention.  Most of the
actionable items are occurring on JIRA, with four items created, three closed,
one reopened, and forward progress on four others.

Notable discussions:

Licensing of the feather logo under ALv2 (on request from the PRC), the
recommendation is to (continue?) to license such under the ALv2.

LGPL behind an isolation layer (current position: we will allow the dependency,
but not the ASF distribution of the software)

Received a trademark infringement concern on one of our incubating projects,
I am pursuing it with the podling in question.

Progress is slow but has resumed on resolving the WebCollage and WSRP4J
licensing issue.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For August 2009: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to be
dealt with by the security team.  This month saw additional load due
to questions about the "Slowloris" httpd exploit.  Due to the
outstanding work of the infrastructure team and their rapid and full
disclosures we did not get questions about the infrastructure
compromise.

1    Support question
6    Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
3    Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
5    Vulnerability reports of which
     1    Vulnerability report [apr, via security@apache.org] CVE-2009-2412
     1    Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]
          (not an issue)
     1    Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@httpd.apache.org]
     1    Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]
     1    Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]
          (not an issue)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project (September 2009)


ApacheCon US 2009 News (2-6 November)
----------------------------------------------------

* Early bird registration is now closed. Registration is looking good, but
  we're still hoping to do more work on PR

* Based on contributions to this event over the past 6 months, that list of
  7 subsidized planners is Noirin, Shane, Bill, Sally, Jean-Frederick, Jukka
  and Ross

* We are in the last lap on tutorials; whatever tutorials aren't filled on
  or about the 1st of October will be canceled.


ApacheMeetUp/BarCampApache Asia 2009 (Late Nov/Early Dec 2009)
----------------------------------------------------

Location: Beijing, China and Colombo, Sri Lanka
Date: Nov. 28-29 (Beijing); Dec 4-6 (Colombo)
Organizers/ConCom reps: Justin, Sanjiva, Xiao-Feng

This is a follow-on to last year's BarCamp in Beijing that we conducted.

The event will be a travelling road show.  One day of talks and one day
of BarCamp in Beijing.  Two days of talks and one day of BarCamp in
Colombo.  We will focus primarily on local speakers and developers.

Our goal is to encourage local Apache committers to get together and
interact with other local community members who are interested in open
source. While we'll publicize to the best of our ability, the goal is
really to connect local folks.

In Beijing, we have space available at either a local university or
Intel's Beijing office (where we had the BarCamp last year).  The
current preference is to return to Intel's office.  In Beijing, we have
some other volunteers besides Xiao-Feng assisting - including Peter
Cheng who was instrumental in helping out at last year's Beijing event.
Peter has suggested combining forces with "OpenSourceCon" and producing
a joint 2-day event.  The structure would still be roughly the same, but
there may be an additional 1/2 day of talks.  We are pretty close to
finalizing the structure for Beijing.

At this time, organization in Colombo is not yet as advanced as Beijing.
However, given Sanjiva's past experience with events in the area, Justin
is optimistic that it will all pull together just in time.  =)  Sanjiva
has committed to finding some local space in Colombo.  We are optimistic
that we will find a venue at little to no-cost soon.


Apache Retreat, Ireland 2010
----------------------------------------------------

* Signup is now open for the Apache Retreat, Knockree Youth Hostel, for the
weekend of 9th-12th April. Several committers have registered, but further
publicity is currently on hold to be coordinated with ApacheCon publicity.
 

Other
----------------------------------------------------

* Discussions are ongoing about what we want to do in Europe in 2010, and
  what kind of support we might need for those events. Currently, it looks
  like the Apache Retreat for committers, plus a potential second event along
  more traditional lines for users/developers.

* SCP has expressed an interest in working with the ASF in Europe in 2010.

* ConCom has requested a budget of 30kUSD for the financial year to April
  2010. This will cover the costs of the Apache Retreat in Ireland, as well as
  projected costs for the events in Asia. There is also a small discretionary
  fund included, for the support of other events.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

The Public Relations Committee is still without an active chair after Jim's
resignation a few months ago. Justin's recent proposal to split the PRC into
three distinct groups (Sponsorships, Public relations/Communications,
Marks/Licensing) has sparked discussion about what to do with the PRC.
There is general agreement that restructuring is needed, but no consensus yet
on whether that should be done within PRC or at the board level. Input from
the board would be helpful in resolving the question.

Beyond the organizational issues and the lack of a VP, PRC, work has continued
on all PRC areas. There has been lively debate about our policy on trademarks
and their licensing, and Larry's recent proposal seems to be generally
acceptable. Much of the PR activity is targeting the ApacheCon US and our
ten year anniversary, and our sponsors are being taken care of.

There were no PRC conference calls in August. Summaries of the September
calls will be included in the next PRC board report.  See below for an update
on the other PRC activities since our last report.

PRC Update – Activities Undertaken During August

= = =

GENERAL INFO

- Various discussions continue about splitting the PRC into separate
  subcommittees.

- Jukka suggests/recommends we resume use of the PRC Jira. 34 new issues
  have been filed and 10 issues resolved/closed since our last report.

- Ross Gardler suggested we consider using http://www.hootsuite.com to
  manage multiple Twitter accounts.

- Jukka mentions that Sally's posts to announce@ had gotten caught in the
  Spam filter due to the use of both a question mark and exclamation point
  in the subject line.

- J.Aaron is giving a talk on The Apache Way at the Hong Kong Software
  Freedom Day.

- Larry Rosen, Noirin Shirley, Henri Yandell, Sanjiwa Weerawarana and
  Jukka Zitting were added to the PRC in August.

- Larry is concerned about possible misinterpretation/conflicts in
  communications between PRC discussions and those on legal-internal, and
  asks to be removed from the PRC. See the proposed resolution for the
  required board action.

- Yonik Seeley has stated that he'll be taking a break from participating
  in future trademark discussions.

= = =

COMMUNITY OUTREACH

- Larry forwards an email from the "Foundations" mailing list requesting
  information on how the ASF's offerings differ from SPI or the Software
  Conservancy for potential Apache Incubator initiatives. Shane responds
  with two fundamental differences:

    1) guidelines – the ASF's as defined by The Apache Way, plus the
       Incubator's specifications;

    2) licenses – any ASF project requires the Apache License;
       the SPI, however suggests GPL.

- Sally is working with the folks at openSUSE conference to get them to
  distribute the ASF/ApacheCon promo cards at their event.

- Sally is working with the folks at OpenWorld conference to get them to
  distribute the ASF/ApacheCon promo cards at their event.

- Robert Burrell Donkin wants to revive the use of ASF business cards to
  incorporate new encryption keys and in time for ApacheCon.

- "Happy 10th Anniversary, Apache" promo video now on YouTube;
  "My Apache" campaign begun.

- Ross Gardler forwarded detailed ideas on ways to publicize MeetUps
  and related non-ApacheCon sessions.

- Upayavira begins to work with Sally on redesigning the ASF promo card as
  part of overall redesign of ASF brand/collateral look and feel.

= = =

MEDIA AND ANALYST RELATIONS

- Sally working very closely with PageOne on PR strategy and day-to-day
  tactics for ApacheCon.

- Jim interviews with Pam Derringer from Linux.com.

- Justin interviews with Andrew Binstock from SDTimes/InfoWorld.

- Phil Steitz interviews with Alex Handy from SD Times on Commons Math
  2.0.

- Sally received a call from Ellen Messmer of Network World who is filing
  a story on reported critical vulnerabilities in various XML libraries;
  both Dims and Mark Thomas responded with excellent resources and links.

- Larry wrote an article for Open Source lawyer continuing education that
  included several mentions on the ASF.

- Jukka acknowledges the success of Sally's modified boilerplate for use
  in release announcements. The follow-up discussion questioned whether
  and how contributors should be named in such announcements.

- Total 284 press hits, including mentions by "friends" and on blogs;
  a tremendous amount of coverage received within 24 hours of the ApacheCon
  hosting site hack.

= = =

BRAND, TRADEMARK, AND LOGO USAGE

- Received request from Apache Maven committers Arnaud Heritier and
  Nicolas De Loof to use the Apache feather and Maven logo on the cover
  on an upcoming book on the subject. Craig Russell drafted and sent
  approval note (PRC-39, resolved).

- Larry suggests we add a small "TM" to the right of the Maven logo.

- Received request from Jörn Kottmann to create a "sponsorship" page for
  Apache UIMA that recognizes those organizations (such as IBM and Infopaq)
  who are paying their staff to build and support the project. The request
  was denied (PRC-9, closed).

- As a followup, a more generic policy on links to external companies
  was drafted and approved by PRC (PRC-13, closed). See the new policy
  document at http://www.apache.org/press/requirements.html.

- Received request from Stephen Wensley of Vanquish Media to use the ASF logo
  on a business card and Website, stating "...proudly used and supported";
  the Website would link to the ASF (PRC-16, open).

- Noirin noted that there are several Hadoop-based events that are presenting
  content very similar to that at ApacheCon, but cost considerably less money,
  and seem to not have any formal connection to the ASF.

- Santiago forwarded a link that detailed trademark issues with
  Canonical vs Ubuntu.

- Jukka inquires about the terms under which the feather logo now licensed,
  and if they are compliant with the policy set by ASF legal (PRC-8, open).

- Grant Ingersoll forwarded numerous instances of potential trademark
  violation for both Apache CouchDB as well as Apache Solr (PRC-11, open).

- Damon Logiudice of Oracle requested we confirm the preferred trademark
  acknowledgment format for Apache Jackrabbit (PRC-10, closed).

- R. Chandra Sekaran alerted us to a Nutch admin site that links to unrelated
  Websites at http://wiki.apache.org/nutch/FrontPage

- Brett Porter requested to use www.effectivemaven.com for book content.

- Santiago suggests we create a brand/trademark checklist that we can
  forward to PMCs for them to follow, particularly useful with donated code.

- Phil Steitz points out that the current trademark policy is challenging
  for projects that don't have logos, as it states that shall the project
  pages must "clearly mark their primary project logo(s) as trademarks."

- Shane opens a formal vote on Core Trademark Principles. Vote is cancelled
  due to lack of consensus, but followup discussion resulted in a new proposed
  draft by Larry that seems to be gaining consensus (PRC-35, open).

- Continued discussion on the difference between trademark and copyright
  licenses, particularly in their use in books and Websites, and whether
  we need to embed a "TM" symbol on all logos. Also discussion on
  enforceability ensues.

- Jim noted a promotional link at the search box of the Apache Lucene site.

- Leo Simons is seeking clarification regarding the policy/validity of his
  self-created artwork for the logo for Apache Excalibur - he presumes that
  due to his signing a CLA that the art is contributed to the ASF and the
  copyright is available under the Apache license.

- Simon Laws re-requests that he be able to be able to use the Apache Tuscany
  name in the title of a book he's authoring for Manning. NAK on his initial
  request.

- Larry creates draft PRC Trademark Policy for Third Parties.

- Brian Pendleton requests permission to use the Apache feather on a
  PowerPoint slide.

= = =

SPONSORSHIP

- Sally secured the correct contacts at Yahoo!, and has been working with
  Geir to invoice them for their Platinum renewal.

- Sally has been in touch with Debbie of Progress; everything is in synch,
  and Sponsorship renewal funds have been received.

= = =

FUNDRAISING

- Geir reports receiving a donation check from Roxtel Corp for $71.01.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

o Hacking Incident
 = First major security incident on our infrastructure since 2001[1].
There are always possible things to change, but we handled it well,
and have rebounded with one of the most active months in recent Infra
memory.
 = Initial Report:
<https://blogs.apache.org/infra/entry/apache_org_downtime_initial_report>
 = Full Report:
<https://blogs.apache.org/infra/entry/apache_org_downtime_report>

[1] http://www.apache.org/info/20010519-hack.html

o SARA/SURFnet hardware moving to new location inside same data
center. bvds heading up the local team on the ground.

o Added Gavin as a part time contractor.

o SvnPubSub developed
<https://svn.apache.org/repos/infra/infrastructure/trunk/projects/svnpubsub/svnpubsub.py>
 = Notifies services of changes to the Subversion Repositories
 - Twitter Bot Online <http://twitter.com/asfcommits>
 - Testing SvnWcSub, to keep a working copy in sync with a master
repository.  Will replace /dist/ and most websites distribution in the
long run, which is currently being done with rsync over SSH.

o mod_allowmethods developed
<https://svn.apache.org/repos/infra/infrastructure/trunk/projects/mod_allowmethods/mod_allowmethods.c>
 = Disabled all non-GET requests on most VHosts for *.apache.org

o mod_asf_mirrorcgi developed
<https://svn.apache.org/repos/infra/infrastructure/trunk/projects/mod_asf_mirrorcgi/mod_asf_mirrorcgi.c>
 = Hack to map our hundreds of identical download.cgi scripts to
invoke the same CGI directly.

o Disabled CGI support on most vhosts for *.apache.org

o MoinMoin wiki upgraded from 1.3.x to 1.8.x

o FastCGI via mod_fcgid is now used for the wiki and mirrors.cgi

o Nyx setup with VMWare to host various VMs.

o Enabled OPIE on Brutus & Nyx.

o Dealt with ZFS issues on minotaur(people). Had to rebuild the array
after a disk died.

o Replaced hyperreal.org with no-ip.com for one of our Slave DNS Servers.

o Coordinated a security fix for Bugzilla.  We were contacted ahead of
time by Bugzilla developers, and given a patch to apply before they
made a public disclosure.  Mark has since updated us to their new
release.

o Requested new Solaris 10 OS subscription keys from contact at Sun.

o thor brought online (to host svn-dist and search services)

o eos, bia, thor, and aurora upgraded to Solaris 10 u7.

o New sshd_config using SSH keys stored in SVN for infra members has
been deployed on most machines.

o In progress of removing unneeded access & sudo to several machines
(hermes, brutus, minotaur)

o promoted norman,pctony,gmcdonald to root@ on all fbsd boxes

o zfs is declared production ready in 8.0-RELEASE when it comes out

o Minotaur(people)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = Updated ports:
  - hpn-ssh - is now a port
 = Updated people.apache.org, www.apache.org
   httpd 2.2.11 -> 2.2.13
 = converted to dns/bind96
 = setup no-ip as dns slaves
 = started ipfw->pf conversion

o hermes(smtp)
 = Updated to 7-stable

o hercules(mx2.us)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = setup

o eris(svn.us)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = updated ports
  - serf is now a port
 = updated svn 1.6.1 -> 1.6.5
 = updated httpd 2.2.11 -> 2.2.13
 = updated svnmailer
 = attempted viewc update
  - fixed viewvc file contents bug

o harmonia(svn.eu)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = updated ports
  - serf is now a port
 = updated svn 1.6.1 -> 1.6.5
 = updated httpd 2.2.11 -> 2.2.13
 = updated svnmailer
 = attempted viewc update
  - fixed viewvc file contents bug

o athena(mx1.us)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = replaced dead disk ad4 [osuosl]
 = replaced doa disk again [osuosl]
 = updated httpd 2.2.11 -> 2.2.13
 = updated ports

o nike(mx1.eu)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = updated httpd 2.2.11 -> 2.2.13
 = updated ports
 = updated lom [osuosl]

o loki(tb,ftp,cold spare)
 = Updated to 7-stable
 = updated ports

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

General News
============

The judges concluded their scoring and 13 applicants have been chosen to
attend ApacheCon US 2009. All but two so far have provided us with enough
information to proceed.
We have chosen our US based travel agent and our in communications regarding
flight prices. Flights should be booked this week, treasurer should keep an
eye out for a wire transfer request :).
We have our shepherds in place who are liaising between the prospective
attendees - being their contact point - and providing the necessary
information in order to book the flights/hotels/accommodation, so thanks to
them for their hard work these next couple of weeks.

TAC will have a dedicated man on the ground at the AC US 09 event this year
helping to organize and coordinate the attendees, thanks to Nick Burch for
taking up this role.

We are trying to organize a couple of 'extra' budget items for AC US 09 for
our attendees (e.g. A Welcome Breakfast Meeting for TAC attendees, to be
paid for by TAC etc.) These are being discussed on the TAC list (See thread
'TAC Funding Stuff' for anyone that is interested.). Once concluded we will
be asking treasurer to provide those funds, totaling less than $500 and
coming out of our current budget.

SCP Invoicing
=============

More information regarding SCP invoicing has been requested. Earlier on in
the year I was requested to touch base with SCP and chase up invoices. We
have touched base a couple of times and SCP have said they will get it to us
sometime.

It has been mentioned that committees with budgets will in future be
expected to report (yearly ?) on their budgets, where the money went, how
effective was it, etc etc, so for this to happen, and to base future budget
requests on, I'd like to see actual costs of things.

As invoices etc are the responsibility of the treasurer, I therefore
respectfully ask that the treasurer take over the chasing up of SCP
invoicing, but please keep TAC apprised and especially keep us in the loop
as to regards costs - or just somewhere saying, here TAC, this is exactly
what you spent at AC US 08, AC EU 09 etc.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

No report filed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache APR Project

The activity on the project in the last 3 months (Jun 18 2009 to Sep 20
2009) was as follows:

APR trunk:        95 commits
APR util trunk:    0 commits (obsolete)
APR 1.4.x:        32 commits
APR util 1.4.x:   22 commits
APR 1.3.x:        38 commits
APR util 1.3.x:   29 commits
APR 0.9.x:        11 commits
APR util 0.9.x:    6 commits
APR iconv trunk:   0 commits
APR iconv 0.9.x:   0 commits
site:             27 commits

Current stable release of APR is 1.3.8, released Aug 6 2009. Legacy
release 0.9.18 received a security patch for the CVE mentioned below.

Current stable release of APR util is 1.3.9, released Aug 6 2009. Legacy
release 0.9.17 received a security patch for the CVE mentioned below.

Current stable APR iconv release is 1.2.1, released Nov 15 2007.

A security issue has been fixed in the latest round of releases and
patches:

CVE-2009-2412: Overflow in pools and rmm, due to size alignment.

As of Sep 13 2009, there were 88 APR related bugs outstanding in
Bugzilla.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Archiva Project

Releases:
* 1.2.2 was released in September 2, 2009
* Finalizing 1.2.x series with the current development version (1.2.3)
  targeted as the last release for this series

Community:
* Added new committers - Marecor Baclay, Jevica Arianne Zurbano
* Dev list traffic is a bit low, not a lot of discussions about future
  plans.
* Releases are also lagging a little, interval of releases can be shortened
  further.

Issues:
* No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Camel Project

Community:
 * The new and improved Camel 2.0 was released.
 * Activity continues at the usual high pace.
 * Mailing lists keep their top 10 ranking at nabble.
 * No new committers.

Development:
 * Development continues on both 1.x maintenance branch and trunk.
 * Community contributions keep coming in.
 * Maintenance release of the 1.x branch planned.

Releases:
 * Camel 2.0-M3 released.
 * Camel 2.0.0 released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project
Development

* Working towards 3.0 Beta, lots of improvements to the Cayenne core and to
  CayenneModeler were added.

Community

* Activity on the user and development lists has been steady.
* No new or retired committers and PMC members.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Commons Project

General
=======

 o Continued healthy activity and responsiveness on both dev and user lists.
 o Development activity across multiple components, including renewed
   interest in some previously less active components (Codec, JEXL).
 o No new sandbox components

Releases
========

 o Codec 1.4
   http://markmail.org/message/7jmcva3kho7ngnv6
 o Math 2.0
   http://markmail.org/message/dz7ug3kwqq3ylilv
 o Pool 1.5.2
   http://markmail.org/message/qwvknbizl5jy7m4c


Community
=========
 o No new sandbox committers
 o New committer
   - Henri Biestro
 o No new PMC members


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

There are no known issues.

Nearly zero activity in all places. Recently some work has been done
to shape up the code base and make parts of the project usable in an
OSGi environment (and maybe collaborate with the Felix project).
This has been discussed before and maybe this can help to increase the
interest in the project a little bit again.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Felix Project

Community

    * Added new committers: David Savage, Derek Baum, Tim Moloney,
      Pierre de Rop, and Sten Roger Sandvik.

Software

    * Recent contributions:
          o Sigil contribution from Paremus committed to SVN.
          o Sten Roger Sandvik contributed improved OSGi HTTP Service
            implementation, which was voted on and is going through IP
            clearance currently.
    * Recent subproject releases:
          o Bundle Repository (1.4.1)
          o Config Admin (1.2.0, 1.2.4) - Updated to align with R4.2; used
            as the OSGi RI.
          o File Install (1.2.0, 2.0.0)
          o Framework (1.8.1, 2.0.0) - The latest release aligns the framework
            implementation with OSGi 4.2.
          o iPOJO (1.4.0)
          o Main (1.8.1, 2.0.0) - Improves configuring framework, aligns with
            latest framework release.
          o Metatype (1.0.4)
          o HTTP Service Jetty (1.0.1) - Minor maintenance release.
          o Shell (1.4.0) - Added some new commands for inspecting framework
            state and other minor improvements.
          o Shell TUI (1.4.0) - Minor bug fix release.

Licensing and other issues

    * None.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

    * many thanks to the infra team for upgrading the OS on vmgump.

Technical:

    * the installation is chugging along with active metadata
      maintenance.  Excalibur moving to Maven 2 builds and Tomcat
      restructuring its svn tree caused a few hiccups that have been
      resolved by now.

Other:

    * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.

    * no releases.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project

Summary
=======

The Apache Harmony community remains healthy, and has recently released
a new milestone build.  The lack of a JCK continues to be an issue for
Harmony.


Development and Releases
========================

The Harmony community published Apache Harmony 5.0 Milestone 11 on
August 31st.  This latest milestone build contains over sixty bug fixes,
plus numerous enhancements across all modules.  Our previous release was
in June 2009.

There was also an attempt to publish the first Apache Harmony 6.0 stream
milestone, but after a period of community testing we decided we were
not quite ready, and to ensure acceptable quality the 6.0 stream
milestone has been postponed until a number of technical issues are
resolved.

Our involvement with the Google Summer of Code programme produced mixed
results. Some students went through to the full term and produced useful
results, others either didn't make it to the mid-term review, or failed
at the final assessment.

The Harmony community voted to accept two code contributions during this
period.  The first was an updated JDWP agent capable of Java 6 level
functionality and debugging non-Java stratum code (e.g. JSPs).  The
second was made up of native code modifications and additions to allow
wider platform portability, giving the class library natives the ability
to build and execute on AIX and z/OS.


Security
========

No reported security incidents this period.


Community
=========

There were no changes to the committership during this period. There are
currently 39 committers, of which ~9 were active this period.

We did some housekeeping on the PMC membership, moving 12 inactive folk
to emeritus status.  That resulted in the PMC being reduced to 11 active
members.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project

No report required.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The Incubator is running actively and (relatively) smoothly, with nothing
requiring the Board's attention at this time.  In general, the Incubator has
both a lot of activity and a lot of attention.

Sebb and Joe have been contributing to tuning the release process for
publishing Incubator artifacts.

Last month we mentioned that Bill Stoddard had a face-to-face meeting with
the Bluesky team.  This was a misunderstanding, as was confirmed by a phone
discussion with Bill, but Bill has been making good communication progress
with them.  This month's report reflects the continued results of Bill's
efforts.  Bill's goal is to have working code in the ASF repository within
the month.  Once there is working, buildable code, that is not
GPL-dependent, it should be easier to start to grow a community around
Bluesky.

There was some discussion of changing the release voting process to "make
things easier" for podlings, and an interesting observation is that some of
the people most vocally against the change were those who had come into the
ASF on podlings, and felt that they had benefited from and learned from the
current process, and wanted to keep it as-is.

A potentially significant new project, Apache Aries, has gotten a lot of
discussion and attention during the past month as it was proposed for
Incubation.  Apache Aries project is intended to "deliver a set of pluggable
Java components enabling an enterprise OSGi application programming model."
It proposes to collaborate with Apache Felix, Geronimo, CXF and other
projects.  There has been discussion of whether Apache Aries will end up as
a TLP or part of Felix, but for now it is just a proposal to Incubate.  See
also: http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/AriesProposal


-------------------------------------------------

Bluesky

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

Things are getting better in the last month. First, some critical legal
issues which bothers us long time like FFmpeg are solved. Also, we deleted
1394dv support for legal problem, but we believe that would not affect the
functionalities. Currently, the only legal issue is ARTS/OSS, and we've
already replaced ARTS with SDL, however, it needs sometime to make the whole
system run successfully. And we would use ALSA compiled in LGPL way to
replace OSS. There are some other good news too. More developers are joining
the mailing list and a core team, i believe, is gradually establishing in
XJTU. We now aims to the first release and next step we will try to attract
more developers on bulletin board system at XJTU to contribute to the future
version of RealClass.

Plus, MERSMP team, which is in charge of the developing of MERSMP system,
now join the dev-mailing list. Together with MERSMP team, we believe that we
could make much more achievement in the future. And we still need the
committer account so that we commit recent changes of website?code etc. Hope
the accounts could be approved soon.
the inactive committer account:

    1.okid  a.k.a Dong Yang
    2.stellagjj  a.k.a JingJing Gao
    3.zhangfan   a.k.a Fan Zhang

and the new committers would be:

    1.mabowen  a.k.a Samuel Kevin
    2.chenping  a.k.a Arthur Chen

top 2 or 3 to resolve prior to first release:

   * Replace ARTS with SDL and make the system work;
   * Complete the information about BlueSky on wiki and official website;
   * As to MERSMP team, they need sometime to get used to the Apache way;


----

Cassandra

Cassandra is a distributed storage system providing reliability at a massive
scale. Started incubation: 01/2009. Opened to community in 03/2009.

Past action items:

   * Vote on committers Eric Evans and Jun Rao.  Done.  (And accepted.)
   * Get 0.3.0 release out.  Done.

Other notable milestones:

   * Digg is running a Cassandra cluster of almost 10 TB now.

Next steps:

   * Get 0.4.0 release out.  (Beta1 was released a couple weeks ago; RC1 is
being voted on now.)


----

Click

Click is a stateless page and component oriented Java web framework.

Click has been incubating since July 2008.

Tasks completed since June:

* New Committer: Adrian Antal
* Released Click 2.1.0-RC1, our second Apache release
* Released Click 1.5.3, a non-Apache maintenance release hosted at
!SourceForge

Top priorities:

* Release Apache Click 2.1.0


----

ESME

Enterprise Social Messaging Experiment (ESME) is a secure and highly
scalable microsharing and micromessaging platform that allows people to
discover and meet one another and get controlled access to other sources of
information, all in a business process context.

ESME entered the incubator in 2008-12-02.

The following items have been performed since the last reporting period

* Creation of Apache Wiki as Podling's main web site - replacing old
forrest site. This is an ongoing task but
 is off to a good start.
* Dick Hirsch was accepted as an Apache committer.
* Implementation of access pools in main branch
* Creation of branch to deal with access pools prototype
* Started work on new UI
* Patch committed from new developer

The following items are planned for the next reporting period:
* Continue work on wiki and move more content from mailing list to the wiki
* Work on new UI

Top 2 or 3 things to resolve prior to graduation
* Move all collaboration to the esme-dev mailing list
* Increase community involvement in the project
* First Apache release


----

Etch

Etch was accepted into Incubator on 2 September 2008. We had our first
birthday!

Etch is a cross-platform, language- and transport-independent framework for
building and consuming network services. The Etch toolset includes a network
service description language, a compiler, and binding libraries for a
variety of programming languages.

Diaspora!

Most all of the Cisco-based Etch team found themselves unemployed by Cisco
this quarter. So this quarter has been marked with little technical progress
as the team members find new homes for themselves. Despite the disruption,
Youngjin has begun to pickup on the C-binding work started by James DeCocq.

Release 1.1 is ready but needs some administrative polish before it is
*done*.

Release 1.2 is next in the pipeline.

Our problem with finding a home for our continuous build continues. Various
plans have been proposed and failed due to lack of a Windows-friendly c#
build environment. We need to find a place do public builds.

Outstanding items:

  * More community.. we have been Cisco-centered with just a few nibbles
outside of Cisco. Things are definitely changing with members employed or so
to be employed in different places. Building a stronger community over the
next several months is our key task.


----

Hama

Hama has been incubating since 19 May, 2008. It is a parallel matrix
computational package based on Hadoop Map/Reduce.

Recent developments:

* We implemented EigenValue Decomposition, based on Map/Reduce computing
model
* We start considering about another computing model based Bulk Synchronous
  Parallel on Hadoop
* We start preparing a paper of this project

Required before graduation:

* More practical examples of matrix manipulation
* Increase community size and activity
* First Apache release


----

Kato
Kato was accepted into the Incubator on 6 November 2008.

Kato is a project to develop the Specification, Reference Implementation,
and TCK for JSR 326: the JVM Post-mortem Diagnostics API

Recent Activity:

* A JVMTI agent has been contributed by Paul Sobek along with an
  implementation of the API.
* The JSR specification document has been written and is building.
* The JSR specification has been submitted to the JCP as an EDR.
* The project is being built on the ASF's hudson server.

The following is planned for next reporting period:

* Our first release of the RI, demos and TCK.

Before this project can be graduated we need to produce a usable
implementation of the API and more useful tools to encourage adoption and
participation of a much needed community.


----

Log4php

Log4PHP is a logging framework similar to Log4J, but in PHP. The project
entered incubation in 2004, retired and restarted again on 2007-07-04.

Since the last report there has been much activity. Slightly more activity
from community could be recognized. Several patches from contributors came
in.

Enviroment:

* Website has been updated. We plan to do this on a regular basis now via
Buildbot
* Blog has been activated (http://blogs.apache.org/log4php)
* Christian Grobmeier has been elected as new PPMC-Member

Code:

* Maven has been established as build tool
* PHP5 port has been finished
* buildbot has been established
(http://ci.apache.org/builders/log4php-trunk)
* Lots of code upgrades, fixes etc.

Next steps:

* Stabilizing/Cleaning up code for the first release
* Try to attract more developers for Log4PHP
* Looking at getting an incubating release done.

Issues before graduation:

* Still less community interaction


----

OpenWebBeans

OpenWebBeans is an ASL-licensed implementation of the JSR-299:
Contexts and Dependency Injection for the Java EE platform which is defined
as JSR-299.

OpenWebBeans entered the incubator in October 26, 2008. The following
items have been made after the last report

* We cut a M3 release (under vote)
* We implemented a new spec. features, (Portable Extensions, and changed
  APIs)
* We created a JSR-330 API and integrated with it
* We integrated with embeddable OpenEJB in Tomcat to support EJB Beans
* We implemented 2 new samples related with EJB Beans and JMS Injections
* We started a progress to integrate OWB with Apache Geronimo

Belows are the next steps;

* We will release the M4 version.
* We will integrate with the Apache Geronimo
* We will create more documentations in the wiki
* We will continue to attract new committers into the project.
* We will strive to create more community and increase the use of user@list


----

RAT

RAT has been reasonably quiet though the summer of code project has been
very active over at Google. Initial enthusiasm for developing crawling
capabilities was stalled by the lack of quick progress towards a release by
Droids.

Progress on graduation is still stalled by the lack of a suitable TLP to
home the project. RAT illustrates well the inability of the incubator system
to work for existing small but open projects without a nominating TLP. If
Apache wants to accept more projects of this nature, some process rethinking
is needed.


----

River

River is aimed at the development and advancement of the Jini technology
core infrastructure. Jini technology is a service oriented architecture that
defines a programming model which both exploits and extends Java technology
to enable the construction of secure, distributed systems which are adaptive
to change. River has been incubating since December 2006.

Recent efforts included replacing make build scripts with ant and
integrating the qa test suite with the main build. The jtreg test suite has
some remaining issues to solve, namely setup and configure a Kerberos KDC
test server, a zone has been set up for this purpose at
river.zones.apache.org , in a addition a proxy server is also required to
replace the functionality of the sun jiniproxy server.  Most jtreg tests are
passing, it would be desirable to have all pass prior to releasing AR2.

Minor modifications need to be made to the ant build scripts to build the
ClassDep.jar manifest correctly to include required libraries following
recent ClassDep reimplementation changes to eliminate dependency upon
internal implementation of Sun's JDK. Once resolved we are clear to release
AR2.

There has been some some recent interest in implementing compression and
caching of bytecode.  Other interests include class versioning and codebase
services.

After AR2, focus will be on support for Java 5 features, such as annotations
and reducing the barriers to entry for new contributor developers.

Required before graduation:

* AR2 Release
* Change com.sun.jini.* namespace to org.apache.river.*
* Reduce barriers to entry for new developers.
* Increased committer participation.


----

Shindig

Shindig is a reference implementation of the OpenSocial and gadgets stack.
The active community has built two parallel implementations of the
OpenSocial and gadgets spec; one in Java and one in PHP.

Incubating since: 2007-12-06

High-level status summary during last quarter:

* stable release compliant to OpenSocial v0.9 currently being reviewed by
PMC
* updates for OpenSocial v0.9 are implemented and in production on several
sites that support OpenSocial
* two new committers joined the community. The committer base on the Java
side is relatively varied. However, until now we have had a single committer
working on the PHP implementation. This changed with the addition of two new
committers focussing on PHP. The lack of committer count (and thus
diversity) on PHP was a graduation issue. The addition of these two
committers certainly moves the project in the right direction regarding
graduation.

Requirements for graduation:
* Discussion about graduation is ongoing. The most pressing need that was
identified was to diversify our committer base for PHP. In many other ways,
the project and community are in very good shape.


----

SocialSite


*** DID NOT REPORT

----

Traffic Server

This last month, the team has worked hard on code cleanup, preparing the
code for submission into the Incubator SVN server. We still have some
cleanup to do, but there is light at the end of the tunnel. Traffic Server
is having a Meetup at ApacheCon, Tuesday night, where we will present our
progress, as well as give an overview of the code architecture, and typical
use case scenarios for TS. Our goal is of course to be done with the code
cleanup, and SVN migration, well before ApacheCon.


----

VXQuery

The VXQuery Project implements a standard compliant XML Query processor.
It has been in incubation since 2009-07-06.

August activities:
* some code additions
* some progress on CCLAs (still not done)

Completed setup steps:
* JIRA/Wiki set up
* SVN access for initial committers set up
* Initial codebase submitted to SVN
* Mailing lists set up
* All ICLAs and most CCLAs in place
* Setup status page: http://incubator.apache.org/projects/vxquery.html

Immediate goals:
* Get all CCLAs in place
* Fix mailing list issues
* Setup project home page

Top 3 issues before graduation:
* Complete podling setup
* Build community
* Create a release


----

Wink

Apache Wink is a project that enables development and consumption of REST
style web services. The core server runtime is based on the JAX-RS (JSR 311)
standard. The project also introduces a client runtime which can leverage
certain components of the server-side runtime. Apache Wink will deliver
component technology that can be easily integrated into a variety of
environments.

Apache Wink has been incubating since 2009-05-27.

Notable Activity:
* After issues with packaging and licensing were resolved, Wink made its
first release!  Thanks to IPMC and others who reviewed the release
artifacts.

* Spread the word of the release via various channels.

* RSS support was added into Apache Wink.

Planned Activity:

* Bug fixes and feature improvements after first release.

* More updates to documentation on cwiki

Top issues before graduation:

* Looking into how to interact with other communities

* Build community


----

Wookie

Apache Wookie (Incubating) is a project to create open source software for
adding widgets to your applications.  It has been in incubation since July
2009.

* No issues currently require IPMC or Board attention
* We are still waiting for ICLAs and CCLAs in order to import incubator
  code to ASF repository
 * Account created: Kris Popat (krispopat)
 * Account created: Scott Wilson (scottbw)
 * Stef Heyenrath iCLA submitted
* Wookie Meetup proposal sent to ConCom
* OpenSocial/SocialSite/Wookie meetup at ApacheCon being organized
* Incubation status file requires updating -
http://incubator.apache.org/projects/wookie.html
* JIRA Activity is increasing and patches are starting to arrive
* During the next month we hope to:
 * file all CLAs
 * move code into ASF

Items to be resolved before graduation:
 * Complete podling setup
 * Create a release
 * Develop community


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

Apache Jackrabbit is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java Technology API (JCR, specified in JSR 170).

The Apache Jackrabbit project is in good shape. We have no board-level
issues at this time.

o Releases

  The big news this quarter is the release of Jackrabbit 1.6.0:

    * Apache Jackrabbit 1.6.0 on August 11th

  The following patch releases were made from earlier maintenance branches:

    * Apache Jackrabbit 1.5.7 on August 3rd
    * jackrabbit-core 1.4.10 on September 15th

  We made two internal releases of the Jackrabbit parent POM:

    * org.apache.jackrabbit:parent:3 on June 26th
    * org.apache.jackrabbit:parent:4 on September 15th

  We also continued releasing Jackrabbit 2.0 alphas:

    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 alpha3 on July 3rd
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 alpha4 on July 14th
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 alpha7 on August 10th
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 alpha8 on August 18th
    * Apache Jackrabbit 2.0 alpha9 on August 26th

o Legal

  We have asked (see LEGAL-50) the legal team to review the terms under
  which we are redistributing the JCR API jar. The purpose of this is to
  complete the legal records, and this issue is not a blocker to our
  current releases.

  Recent legal discussions regarding the contents of the NOTICE files
  (see for example LEGAL-62) suggest that we have been including some
  unnecessary information in our NOTICEs. We will review our NOTICE files
  before the 2.0 release to comply with the consensus on legal-discuss@.

o Community / Development

  Sébastien Launay joined the Jackrabbit team as a committer and PMC member.

  With the 1.6 release our JCR 1.0 work has entered maintenance mode and
  we're focusing on releasing Jackrabbit 2.0 shortly after JCR 2.0 becomes
  available. We reached JCR 2.0 feature-completeness with the 2.0 alpha9
  release, and that release was also used for the JCR 2.0 RI and TCK
  candidates. The JSR 283 final approval ballot has just passed, and we
  expect the final JCR 2.0 release to follow soon.

  The main author of the JCROM project that implements an alternative to
  the Jackrabbit OCM (object content mapping) component contacted us about
  bringing the JCROM code to Jackrabbit and possibly merging with our
  existing OCM code.

o Infrastructure

  We are now using the Nexus server at repository.apache.org for staging
  and deploying our releases to the central Maven repository.

  The monthly Google Analytics reports we set up earlier this year don't
  seem to be reaching the dev@ list anymore. To work around this we're now
  sharing the reports via svn and our web site.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

Apache Labs hosts small and emerging projects from ASF committers.

[SUMMARY]

Nothing that requires board attention.

[DETAILS]

== Labs Statistics ==

- new: 3
- status changes (last 3 months): 1
  - bananadb (completed)
- total number: 30
  - active: 25
  - idle: 1
  - promoted: 1
  - completed: 3
- labs with commits: magma, clouds, penihip, hupa, bananadb, esqueranto,
   mboxed, consite, jaxmas
  (this is a new per-quarter all-time high)

== New Labs =

Hupa (PI: Norman Mauerer):
"Hupa is GWT based Webmail for IMAP-Servers."

Esqueranto (PI Tim Williams):
"An antlr lexer/parser grammar for CQL and related tree grammars for
concrete search implementations (e.g. Lucene)."

mboxed (PI Paul Querna):
"Uses standard MBox files and indexes to display mail archives."
This Lab has been voted on last year and has now been created in SVN where a
proper doap.rdf can be found (which was missing from the original request.)

Tupplur (PI Karl Wettin):
"CouchDB ORM for Java."
This lab has been successfully requested, but not been created yet, so it's
not included in the statistics.

== Re-activated labs ==

None.

== Completed labs ==

BananaDB (PI Karl Wettin) has been completed.

== Community ==

Simone Gianni was voted on the PMC.

On one or two occasions we failed to respond in time to on-list questions or
lab request. With growing a PMC which includes active PIs, I hope those
kinds of situations will be diminished.

== Lab hacking ==

Magma again saw many commits this quarter and is actively seeking to grow
community. Hupa has become very active, too and is thinking about leaving
Labs to Apache JAMES.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project


=== Lucene Status Report: Sept, 2009 ===

TLP

-The PMC added Mahout committers David Hall, Deneche Abdelhakim, Robin Anil
-The PMC added Lucene Java committer Robert Muir



LUCENE JAVA

Lucene Java is a search-engine toolkit.  Development has been
active and we are in the final stages of releasing Lucene 2.9.

SOLR

Solr is a full text search server.  Development and the community
is active.  Solr is in the final push towards the release of 1.4.


NUTCH

Nutch is a web-search engine: crawler, indexer and search runtime.
Development of 1.0 line has stalled as a major redesign has been
under discussion to address various shortcomings of the current platform,
and avoid duplication of effort with other Apache projects.
Two milestone prototypes (OSGI-based and HBase-based) have been created,
which will be further examined and probably merged to form the new
architecture.


LUCY

Lucy is a loose C port of Lucene targeted at dynamic language bindings.
The pace of development has picked up this year, and a significant
milestone was achieved with the completion of the core object model.  We
are working aggressively towards alpha release.


LUCENE.NET (incubating)

Lucene.NET is a .NET based port of Lucene Java.  Development and the
community are active.  Incubating project needs to look towards
graduation soon.


MAHOUT

Apache Mahout is working towards
building a suite of scalable machine learning libraries for text and
data mining.  Development is active and we are working towards a
0.2 release.

PyLucene

PyLucene is a Python integration of Lucene Java.  Development is
active.  Since it is a port of Lucene Java, a release would
be expected after Lucene 2.9 is released

TIKA

Apache Tika is a toolkit for detecting and extracting metadata and
structured text content from various documents using existing parser
libraries.

Tika 0.4 was released in July. Development continues at the steady pace
of a few commits per week. User list activity seems to be increasing.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

The Apache Open For Business Project (Apache OFBiz) is an open source
enterprise automation software project. By enterprise automation we mean:
ERP, CRM, E-Business / E-Commerce, MRP, SCM, CMMS/EAM, and so on.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

Community:

- No new PMC members have been added and no new committers have been added.
- Community interaction remains strong: user and dev mailing lists traffic
is high, and the commits remain about the same.

Project:

- Significant new development continues, for highlights see:
http://docs.ofbiz.org/display/OFBIZ/Main+New+Features

Infra:

- Efforts are underway to get certain project resources, like the demo
server, running on ASF infra instead of third party servers at Contegix,
which hosts resources for other projects as well and which has worked well
so far but the desire is to get it on servers that are controlled by the
ASF infra team. Thanks to everyone involved in this effort.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

-- New releases --

none

-- New committers --

none

-- Status --

After a long release cycle for all sub-projects ending last quarter,
we are now gaining momentum working towards the next set of releases.

1. Pluto 2.0.1 - bug fix release, no release date scheduled

2. Jetspeed 2.2.1 -

Post release commit activity has picking up in August and September.
Activity on the users and dev lists has also been increasing recently.
We have come across two important bugs that should be fixed, so we may
consider a 2.2.1 release as a bug fix release.

Development of new features for 2.2.1 (or 2.2.2), based on commits, is
active including work on:

* a new Navigational feature
* toolbars
* easy one click additions of pages and portlets
* new aggregation and layout engine based to replace existing portal and
  client side aggregation engines
* enhancements to PSML, JCR integration
* reverse proxy support

3. Portals Applications 1.0 released on May 28, 2009

* gadget and netvibes widget integration
* looking into integration with Wookie

4. WSRP/Incubator

I saw some new activity on the legal list. In my opinion, we should
move forward with development on this project despite legal issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project

Qpid is continuing its development towards the 0.6 release, with good
contributions, feedback and patches from the community.

Since the last board report:
- Michael Goulish has been voted onto Qpid as a committer
- The PMC membership has added robbie
- Qpid now has Windows installers
- Contrib builds are being done for the Windows platform
- robbie@a.o has done excellent work as part of his GSoC project this
  year (i.e. two GoSC success stories for project so far GSoC -> active
  committer, 1 failed)
- We have good traffic on the user list.
- Red Hat has contributed an external module to Qpid (process review
  from Apache legal)
- Microsoft is funding the refactor of this contributed module to allow
  substituting DB/store and inclusion into Qpid
- Request was made to PMC to create a list for QMF (Qpid Management
  Framework) user list traffic. PMC recommended to use [QMF] on user
  list until traffic was high enough to warrant another list.

We expect that 0.6 will be released later this year. There are no
current concerns to be raised to the Apache Board at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Quetzalcoatl Project

This report is a repeat of the previous one:

No new developments to report for Quetzalcoatl this quarter. No new
versions released, no major issues discovered. The pace of development
and Jira issues is very very slow.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache ServiceMix Project

A new version of servicemix-exec component is ready to be release. A vote
will be proposed soon. This new version supports WSDL publishing with JAXB
data binding. The WSDL support for most of components is on the road. Using
WSDL, the component can be "self documented" and support multi-action.

A new component has begun: the RMI component. This binding component works
in provider or consumer mode. In consumer mode, it binds a new entry in the
ServiceMix registry and transforms the RMI invocation into a XML request
(data binding). In provider mode, it get the RMI stub on the remote
interface and call an external RMI endpoint. In the same way, it uses data
binding to transform the RMI invocation request/response into a XML
compliant message (sent into the NMR).

The LDAP component WSDL support has begun.

Work started switching to Apache Felix Karaf as the OSGi container/runtime
and will probably be part of 4.1.0 release which is scheduled for approx.
September/October 2009.

A refactoring of the ServiceMix documentation has begun using DocBook to
generate a manual page. For now, the documentation is in sandbox. The
purpose is to provide a multi-format enterprise documentation and promote it
with the new website.

Eoghan Glynn has been voted in as a new ServiceMix committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Sling Project

Sling is an OSGI-based scriptable web framework that uses a Java Content
Repository, such as Apache Jackrabbit, to store and manage content.

Sling graduated as a TLP on June 17th, 2009.

There are no issues which require board attention at the moment.

Community

    * No new committers since the last (August) report.
    * Vidar Ramdal presented Sling at the JavaZone conference in Oslo
      on September 9th.
    * Felix Meschberger will present Sling as part of the Content Track
      at ApacheCon US.
    * Carsten Ziegeler is presenting Sling at the WJAX in November in
      Munic.

Software

    * Apache Sling API 2.0.6 has been released.
    * Apache Sling Repository API Bundle 2.0.4 has been released.
    * Website documentation is steadily improving.

Licensing and other issues

    * none


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- we're working towards a 3.3.0 release (our first major release in over two
  years) -- rule score generation mass-checks are underway; I expect a
  release date inside of the next two months

- mailing lists are active, which is always good


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Synapse Project

Community

The Synapse community keeps going well. Mailing list traffic is solid
and continuous, with new users on a regular basis. Unfortunately we
did have an issue with a nominated committer whose employer would not
sign the CCLA.

Releases
The 1.3 release is taking longer than expected, but progress is steady.

ApacheCon
We are sharing a day with Tuscany and have two presentations scheduled.

Board issues
None identified.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

Releases

We have made three releases this quarter. 2.1.2 was a simple bugfix release that
fixed a security issue documented here:

    http://tiles.apache.org/framework/security/security-bulletin-1.html

Release 2.1.3 is the latest GA release. It includes several other bugfixes and
enhancements. We also released the first version of the 2.2.x series. Apache Tiles
2.2.0 is an alpha-quality release. It series adds several new features, including:

 * Native support for Freemarker and Velocity
 * Support for pattern matching using regular expressions.
 * OGNL support and MVEL support in Tiles definition files, when specifying
   attributes and templates.
 * Ready to use configuration classes to ease startup with minimal coding.

Additionally, 2.2.0 removes some backwards-compatibility features. These features
allowed Tiles to work with older architectures (Java 1.4/Servlet 2.4) that are
no longer supported.

Community

As I've noted in the past I am somewhat concerned about the stability of the
Tiles community. We have no trouble mustering up the votes needed for
releases. Development discussions continue to produce multiple points of
view. But the development and release work is still performed by one PMC
member. The truth of the matter is that if this developer stopped working on
Tiles there would be no further progress. There is a healthy amount of
traffic on the user list, but this developer also answers the bulk of the
questions there. So if he were to leave the project and no one stepped up to
take his place that activity would come to a halt as well. The rest of us
are still interested in the project, but it does not affect our daily work
to the extent that we are compelled to contribute in a more concrete way.

When Tiles was a Struts subproject it was designed to only work with Struts.
Now it is a standalone templating engine that is not tied to a specific
framework. Our biggest user base probably comes from the Spring community.
We have a significant number from the Struts 2 and JSF user base as well.
But most of these users tend to think of Tiles as a third-party dependency
rather than a library in its own right that needs to be developed. Hence, we
have a healthy stream of user list traffic, but we have been unable to
translate any of those people into new committers. It's worth noting that we
have not made a significant effort to reach out beyond our community to seek
growth using the PRC or other resources.

I believe that Tiles still offers some compelling features and there is
still development work to be done. As long as there is still someone around
to do the work and we still have the people to vet releases I'm willing to
continue supporting the project administratively, at least. I don't see
Tiles as a candidate for the Attic at this time, but if development stops it
may be in the future.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

Summary
--------------
The project continues to be active on a number of fronts.
There are no issues requiring Board attention at this time.

Releases
-------------
We have released Tomcat 5.5.28. and 4.1.40 versions.
Tomcat 4.1.40 was the last 4.1.x version we plan to release.


Security
------------
There were no security issue reports that would require urgent
resolution from the last board report.


Development
-------------------
Development was concentrated mainly on fixing bugs for the current
releases and on figuring out the needed tasks for Tomcat 7.
Three taglibs from Jakarta Taglibs were successfully migrated over to
the Tomcat SVN; namely Reusable Dialog Components (RDC), Standard Tag
Library (JSTL implementation) and an in development Extended Tag
Library. Migration of the web site is in progress and user mailing
list migration is requested in INFRA-2185.
Also we reorganized the SVN repository layout to better serve
the multiple branches and project modularity.


Community
-----------------
Glen Nielsen PMC membership status was changed to emeritus on his
own request. Also the SVN access was granted to JSP taglibs team
so they can continue development.

We have also voted the proposed 10th anniversary Tomcat logo, and
we hope to have it's final form in the next couple of weeks.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

No report filed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Summary
-------

This short quarter (we last reported in July) has been a bit slow for the WS
project. We've still yet to come to solid resolution on splitting the
project into multiple TLPs, and I think everyone had a rather busy quarter,
so not a whole lot of discussion happened. I feel somewhat responsible for
not pushing harder on this, but I have been engaged in a contracting gig
which hasn't left me a lot of time for Apache related stuff. :( (I'm hoping
to remedy this in the next few months) It seems a lot of the WSO2 guys have
been occupied as well, and we haven't had many of the IBM'ers chime in as
yet. As you'll recall, our current thoughts are captured on this wiki page:

http://wiki.apache.org/ws/FrontPage/WebServicesPMCReorg

I still personally believe that we have too many subprojects that don't
necessarily tightly relate to each other, and that something should change.
However until we get a solid consensus on this, we're plugging along OK for
now (and in fact we still have one proponent of the "leave it alone"
option). If the board has any suggestions for how to move this conversation
towards a faster consensus, we'd be very open to hearing them.

We've got a track day planned for ApacheCon, and I'm hoping to synchronize
the presenters in the next couple of weeks to make sure we're all ready to
go. Also looking forward to using the hackathon time to get some good work
done.

Some details below, but nothing else requiring board attention at this time.

Releases
--------
* jUDDI 2.0 and 2.0.1
* Scout 1.1.1

New committers
--------------
* Sagara Gunathunga
* Prabath Siriwardena

Subproject-specific notes/comments
----------------------------------
[Axis] Fixed a security-related bug, and we need to get a bug-fix 1.5
release out soon. This will likely be the final Axis release, and we should
consider the project for the Attic (unless a bunch of new committers step
up) after that.

[Axis2] Some major bugs were fixed recently, and we're working on getting a
1.5.1 release out the door. We need to get the transports subproject
released ASAP as well.

[Rampart and Sandesha] Both of these projects are preparing new releases to
go along with Axis2 1.5(.x)

[Axiom] Some good refactoring happening, with an eye towards a release prior
to Axis2 1.6.

[Woden] Our new committer Sagara has been doing a bunch of work on Woden,
which had been dormant for a while previously.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Wicket Project

Apache Wicket is a Java framework for creating highly dynamic, component
oriented web applications, and was established as an Apache project in
June 2007.

Things worthy of note:
- Released Apache Wicket 1.3.7, 1.4.0 and 1.4.1
- trunk is now reserved for Wicket 1.5, and a maintenance branch for 1.4 has
  been created
- User list activity has been up from a small dip in early 2009
- Jeremy Thomerson will be giving a Wicket presentation and course at
  ApacheCon US 2009

No issues require attention from the board.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

XMLBeans Report

There was a regular quarter for XMLBeans. On the development side there were 
quite a few new fixes checked in, which brings us on the brink of a new 
release. And on the community side the mailing lists are busy as usual and 
the PMC voted on adding Jacob Danner and Wing Yew Poon to its ranks. The 
vote ended with only positive answers, they were acknowledged by the ASF 
board and they were added to the XMLBeans PMC.

There are no other issues that require board's attention.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the September 23, 2009 board meeting.
