                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            November 2, 2010


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 3:30pm (Eastern) and began shortly
    thereafter when sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized.  The meeting was held at the Westin Peachtree Plaza hotel,
    Atlanta, GA, USA.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting (arrived at 3:45)
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Sam Ruby           
        Noirin Shirley
        Greg Stein (arrived at 3:52)

    Directors Absent:

        Roy T. Fielding

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci

    Officers Absent:

        Craig L Russell

    Guests:

        Henning Schmiedehausen
        Brian Fox

 3. Discussion Items

    A. Maven trademark issues

       Jim did attempt to call Wayne on Tuesday... will try again with Wayne's
       cell phone.  Shane recapped the previous conversation in which
       Sonatype's CMO requested details supporting the assertion that the ASF
       truly owned the mark, and they were provided.  Shane emphasized how
       important it is that the PMCs are involved in this discussion.  Jim
       mentioned that Maven is not the only PMC in which we are working
       through these issues.  Brian indicated that this is a legacy issue
       where the guidelines in the past were not as clear as they are now.
       Philip indicated that the new CMS will enable us to enforce consistent 
       trademark usage in headers and footers across the entire site.
       
    B. Java 7 vote responses

       Doug suggested that any press release include information which
       identify what actions Oracle could take to get us to stay.  Geir
       indicated that the condition is a unencumbered TCK for Java 6.  Geir
       indicated that he would produce a Q&A.  

       Bertrand suggested that now that we just got elected in, it would be a
       good time for a blog post which thanks people for their support and
       uses the opportunity to lobby the new and remaining JCP SE/EE Executive
       Committee members to vote against the umbrella JSR for Java 7 unless it
       comes with JCK terms that we can live with.  Geir to draft a call to
       action and revisit the exiting FAQ by Thursday, with the plan to post
       on Monday.

    C. Java-related issue (Sam)

       [executive session]

 4. Announcements

 5. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 5:30pm (Eastern)

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the November 2, 2010 board meeting.
