                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            May 19, 2010


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 12:00pm (Pacific) and began at
    12:02 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a
    quorum was recognized by the chairman. The meeting was held
    via teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr. joined at 12:05
        Brian McCallister
        Brett Porter
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Officers Present:

        Philip M. Gollucci
        Sam Ruby
        Sander Striker
        Craig L Russell

    Officers Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Henri Yandell
        Paul Querna
        Noirin Shirley joined at 12:15


 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Published minutes can be found at:

        http://www.apache.org/foundation/board/calendar.html

    A. The meeting of March 17, 2010

       See: board_minutes_2010_03_17.txt

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. The meeting of April 21, 2010

       See: board_minutes_2010_04_21.txt

       Tabled.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       Over the last month, there have been some questions, issues and
       topics discussed on the various mailing lists that have caused me to
       reach an unacceptable level of concern and, dare I say it, even
       alarm. Some may object to the tone of what I say, but it is due to
       the continued and growing "disconnect" between some projects and the
       ASF, and the huge amount of turmoil, resources and personal energy
       that it sucks out of the foundation to respond to and handle.

       The ASF is more than just a project-hosting location. It is, or
       should be, a place where like-minded people share a vision on
       how Open Source should be done. Certainly we are not so vain
       to suggest that our way is the only way, but we do feel that it results
       in long term, sustainable projects with code with as few restrictions
       as possible and with IP governance that provides a level of assurance
       that others can use it with minimal risk.

       And yet it is surprising to me how many projects within the ASF
       either don't understand, or follow or even appreciate some of these
       core ideas. It is also upsetting that when the Chairman or any
       director makes a comment about the situation, the content of the
       comment is ignored (or seems to be).

       We don't have process or procedures for the "fun" of it, but for
       clearly defined and logical reasons. And yet that is not understood
       and a small minority chaff at it, or blow it all out of proportion.
       Logos and marks are important assets to the foundation and our
       developer and user community, and yet again, a small minority don't
       appreciate that and feel no need for even minimal protection.

       For this small (but vocal) minority, I wonder where we went wrong.
       Why join an organization to just ignore or disregard the very aspects
       of it which made it useful and prosperous? Or why join an organization
       but be totally ignorant of who they are and what they do?

       And for us, the foundation, what can we do about it... and what
       *should* we do about it, if we really want the ASF to continue
       to live long and prosper?

       In happier news, Welcome to the newest ASF members, elected 
       during March's member meeting:
       
          Ian Boston                   Isabel Drost        Brian Dube
          Jonathan Ellis               Gurkan Erdogdu      Senaka Fernando
          Otis Gospodnetic             Niklas Gustavsson   Andreas Lehmkuehler
          Aristedes Maniatis           Kathey Marsden      Chris Mattmann
          Fred Moyer                   Marcel Offermans    Christopher Rhodes
          Bob Schellink                Vincent Siveton     Michael Stack
          Mark Struberg                Tim Williams        Donald Woods
          Selvaratnam Uthaiyashankar   Tony Wu

       Shane: I share Jim's concerns, and we need to figure out how
       to address it. We need to make it clear what is expected, as
       it is not as clear as it could be.
       
       Geir: I am concerned about the way this is being described:
       "us" vs "them".
       
       Brian: I second what Geir is saying. There clearly is a
       disconnect.
       
       Doug: This is a result of growth. I agree with Shane.
       
       Henri: we had people leaving Commons for similar reasons:
       requiring consensus of people who aren't contributing the
       work. The expectation outside of the ASF is changing, in
       particular 72 hours is a being perceived as a signficant
       delay.
       
       Sander: when do we require 72 hours? When does -1 block a
       release?
       
       Henri: in commons, we previously treated -1 as a release
       blocker. We need more education. 72 hours is a meme that
       allows everybody to participate.
       
       Justin: I'm concerned that this never surfaced in any board
       report.
       
       Jim: we need more F2F get together to share the knowledge.
       Documentation does help, but is not sufficient.
       
       Sam: From http://www.apache.org/foundation/voting.html:
       "Releases may not be vetoed" <== in bold
       
       Jim: we were blind-sided. We take IP and IP tracking very
       seriously. We want to avoid any kind of risks.
       
       Sander: my suggestion is to require PMC chairs to dial in to
       board meetings at least once.
       
       Brian, Philip: people who report should dial in
       
       Geir: adding more people would change the call (duration,
       focus)
       
       Brian: it also adds more (perceptions) of overhead
       
       Doug: one call every three months is not that much
       
       Jim: it is all perception. It can be perceived as a chore or
       an opportunity.
       
       Geir: what is missing is a chair with an affinity to the
       foundation
       
       Shane: we need to set the expectation that the chair is
       associated with the ASF
       
       Sander: we should ask new chairs to attend the first call
       
       Sam: I think that the terms used in this board report sets the
       wrong tone.
       
       Jim: I agree, but I also see the need to be the bad guy to
       communicate the need that we are serious
       
       Doug: I think a less confrontational tone would be productive
       
       Justin: It is Jim's sometimes you need to not be oblique,
       sometimes you need a stick
       
       Henri: if there is a carrot and a stick, I suggest that the
       carrot goes first
       
       Jim: While I share Sam's and Doug's concern, I would prefer to
       keep my report largely as it is, but will change the wording.
       [these minutes reflect the updated wording]

    B. President [Justin]

       I spent the majority of the last month on vacation traipsing
       around the globe.  Kudos to Sander for keeping an eye on things
       while I was gone.  Thanks to Brett and Ari for showing me around
       Sydney!

       Along with Hyrum K. Wright (a committer to Subversion), I co-chaired
       a workshop on Emerging Trends in FLOSS Research and Development
       at an ACM SIGSOFT conference in Cape Town, South Africa.  For more,
       see:
          http://orac.ece.utexas.edu/pub/icse-floss/

       Also in Cape Town, a case study on Apache HTTP Server co-written
       by Roy back in 2000 received a prestigious "most influential paper"
       award from the main ACM SIGSOFT event.  The original paper is:
         http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/337180.337209

       In Cape Town, I lost my wallet which had my ASF credit card.
       Wells Fargo was called immediately afterwards and a replacement
       card should have arrived at our Secretary's address, but I have
       not yet received an acknowledgement that it has arrived.

       I received an invitation to keynote a conference in China -
       Bill Stoddard will be giving a keynote as I will not be able to
       attend.  We will provide financial support for Bill to attend
       out of my discretionary funds.  I will be talking at the
       TransferSummit in Oxford next month.

       Geir requested that when people lose credit cards they notify
       the treasurer.
       
       Sam indicated that has received the credit card, and will
       forward it shortly.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are currently up to date as of 2010-05-17 for checking,
      savings and credit card accounts.

      Our fiscal year closed April 30.  Happy new year.

      Contributions:

       - Current PayPal balance as of 4/19 is $24,038.89 vs 
         $21,726.54 from last report.  This is not included in
         financial statements below.
       - Received $100,000 check from Google
       - Generated invoice for HP at request of Serge and Greg
       - Generated invoice for Basis at request of Serge

      Tasks Done:
       - all approved bills paid.  There remains what appears to be 
         2 paid invoices in the approved section that we need to sort out.
   
      In Progress:
       - preparation for FY2010 US Tax filing.  FY has ended, and finishing
         prep to get materials to CPA.  I prob won't make my original target
         of May 31 for filing, but don't see it going too long after that.
         Main outstanding is payola load into QB as well as ensuring officer
         list is up to date.
       - Problem with a Dell bill - was alerted by Sam on Monday night
         that he received an overdue bill from Dell financials.  I called
         the next morning, paid approx $670 w/ personal check to bring
         account current, and tried to get them to waive finance charges
         (~$300) but only succeeded with $50.  Once Dell figures out
         balance today, I'll pay the rest with ASF check.  Need to figure
         out where original invoice went so we can keep this from
         happening again.


      To Do:
       - need to start gathering CC receipts from CC holders. E.g ACON09

     1) Statement of Financial Income and Expense - April 2010 - Accrual Basis

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                           93.80
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                      0.00
              Total Contributions Income                                 0.00

           Total Income                                                 93.80

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                     368.40
              Licenses and Permits                                      30.00
              Postage and Delivery                                      19.95
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                    518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                   2,116.43
                   Infrastructure Staff                12,500.00
                   Infrastructure - Other                  21.57
                Total Infrastructure                         15,156.00

                Public Relations                              5,000.00
              Total Program Expenses                                20,156.00

           Total Expense                                            20,574.35

        Net Ordinary Income                                        -20,480.55

     Net Income                                                    -20,480.55

   2) Statement of Financial Position - As of April 30, 2010 - Accrual Basis

                                                    Apr 30, 10     Apr 30, 09     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Paypal                                   12,513.63      11,025.57      1,488.06         13.5%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            270,835.09      36,187.52    234,647.57        648.4%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     285,360.68     298,922.01    -13,561.33         -4.5%
           Total Checking/Savings                    568,709.40     346,135.10    222,574.30         64.3%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                      50,000.00      20,000.00     30,000.00        150.0%
           Total Accounts Receivable                  50,000.00      20,000.00     30,000.00        150.0%

        Total Current Assets                         618,709.40     366,135.10    252,574.30         69.0%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    618,709.40     366,135.10    252,574.30         69.0%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Phil Golucci         2,116.43           0.00      2,116.43        100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna             21.57         666.38       -644.81        -96.8%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                    81.12          58.30         22.82         39.1%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz               0.00       1,761.68     -1,761.68       -100.0%
             Total Credit Cards                        2,219.12       2,486.36       -267.24        -10.8%

           Total Current Liabilities                   2,219.12       2,486.36       -267.24        -10.8%

        Total Liabilities                              2,219.12       2,486.36       -267.24        -10.8%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         363,648.74     261,948.68    101,700.06         38.8%
           Net Income                                252,841.54     101,700.06    151,141.48        148.6%
        Total Equity                                 616,490.28     363,648.74    252,841.54         69.5%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      618,709.40     366,135.10    252,574.30         69.0%


    D. Secretary [Sam]

       verbal report
       
       Not much to report. Craig has been shouldering much of the
       workload. I'll talk to Craig offline as to whether or not he
       is interested in swapping positions the next time this comes
       up.

    E. Executive Vice President [Sander Striker]

       I'd like to take the opportunity to echo Jim's concern.  I'm not
       yet at the same stage of alarm, but that may be personal optimism.

       During Justin's absence no immediate action was required from the
       office of President.

       With respect to the executive assistant, I'm pushing the RFP to
       the site Mon, May 24.  The mailing list of the search committee
       will be listed as the address for applications.  I'll coordinate
       with PR to get some attention to the RFP.


       Shane: do we have clear consensus that we have budget for
       this?
       
       Sander: yes, we did that last month.

    Executive officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    1. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

       A number of board members concurred with the "one fight at a time"
       approach.

    2. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

       The document being reviewed can be found at
       http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs/

    3. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Greg]

       See Attachment 3

       Greg to pursue a report for Fundraising

    4. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Brett]

       See Attachment 4

    5. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    6. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    7. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Shane]

       See Attachment 7

       Jim indicated that it would be nice for reports to have CVEs, if
       applicable as well as a foundation-wide security page which lists all
       known/addressed security issues

    8. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley / Geir]

       See Attachment 8

       Noirin clarified that the "off track" that was recovered from was
       a combination of Bill stepping down as Programming Lead, and retreat.

    9.  Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Justin]

        See Attachment 9

    10. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Justin]

       See Attachment 10

       Geir offered to help with the financial parts with the travel
       agents (noting the pain we suffered last cycle).

    Additional officer reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Abdera Project [Ant Elder / Doug]

       See Attachment A

       Great to hear!

    B. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Brian]

       See Attachment B

       Brian will confirm that the "very busy" vs "quiet" refers to
       development vs (lack of) drama.

    C. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Roy]

       See Attachment C

       Report was submitted late.  Will process next month.

    D. Apache Attic Project [Henri Yandell / Jim]

       See Attachment D

       Jim notes that there may be things in the pipeline shortly.

    E. Apache Avro Project [Matt Massie / Brett]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache Buildr Project [Alex Boisvert / Roy]

       See Attachment F

       Roy to pursue a report for Buildr

    G. Apache C++ Standard Library Project [Martin Sebor / Doug]

       See Attachment G

       Doug reported back that Martin clarified some things in this report:
       while he encourages users to post publicly, he helps them even when
       they do not.  He mentioned the private exchange so that the lack of
       traffic on the public list would not be misinterpreted as a lack of
       users.  He also clarified that the original sponsor of the project had
       provided build servers and other resources for continuous testing.
       These services have since been discontinued, and they are looking for
       alternate ways to address this need.

    H. Apache Cassandra Project [Jonathan Ellis / Brian]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache Click Project [Malcolm Edgar / Shane]

       See Attachment I

        Props to Gavin McDonald for assisting the svn team with their
        automated builds setup (buildbot & Hudson)

        Joe Schaefer clarified that CQ5 was selected as it supports static
        exports as a core feature.

    J. Apache Cocoon Project [Vadim Gritsenko / Greg]

       See Attachment J

    K. Apache Community Development Project [Ross Gardler / Jim]

       See Attachment K

       Jim to pursue a report for Community Development

    L. Apache Continuum Project [Emmanuel Venisse / Geir]

       See Attachment L

       Geir to pursue a report for Continuum

    M. Apache CouchDB Project [Damien Katz / Justin]

       See Attachment M

    N. Apache Forrest Project [David Crossley / Shane]

       See Attachment N

       Greg noted that it has been three years since a release has been made.
       Shane to inquire as to the release plans for the Forrest project.

    O. Apache HBase Project [Michael Stack / Geir]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache HTTP Server Project [William A. Rowe Jr. / Brett]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache HttpComponents Project [Erik Abele / Brian]

       See Attachment Q

       Brian to pursue a report for HttpComponents

    R. Apache iBATIS Project [Clinton Begin / Justin]

       See Attachment R

       No report. Deferred to the discussion item.

    S. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Jim]

       See Attachment S

       Doug indicated that he is following the Thrift lists and perceives a
       sincere desire for improvement.

       Sam to straighten out the NTLM question

    T. Apache Lenya Project [Richard Frovarp / Greg]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache Logging Project [Curt Arnold / Doug]

       See Attachment U

       General agreement that off-list development is not an IP issue, at most
       it is a community issue.

    V. Apache Mahout Project [Sean Owen / Roy]

       See Attachment V

       Great progress!

    W. Apache Nutch Project [Andrzej Bialecki / Brett]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache OpenEJB Project [David Blevins / Geir]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache Perl Project [Philippe M. Chiasson / Jim]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache POI Project [Nick Burch / Justin]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Qpid Project [Carl Trieloff / Brian]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Quetzalcoatl Project [Gregory Trubetskoy / Greg]

       See Attachment AB

       Greg has the action to ask Gregory to report again next month. We are
       getting conflicting input as to whether the project is going
       to the attic or not.

    AC. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Doug]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Santuario Project [Raul Benito / Roy]

       See Attachment AD

       No report. Deferred to the discussion items

    AE. Apache Subversion Project [Greg Stein]

       See Attachment AE

       Greg will keep concom@ in the loop about these cool SVN events.

    AF. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Shane]

       See Attachment AF

    AG. Apache Tika Project [Chris A. Mattmann / Jim]

       See Attachment AG

       The thredds/cdm dependency appears to have an "advertising" clause.  
       To be followed up on legal-discuss.

    AH. Apache Traffic Server Project [Leif Hedstrom / Brian]

       See Attachment AH

    AI. Apache Turbine Project [Scott Eade / Shane]

       See Attachment AI

    AJ. Apache Tuscany Project [Ant Elder / Roy]

       See Attachment AJ

    AK. Apache UIMA Project [Marshall Schor / Geir]

       See Attachment AK

    AL. Apache Velocity Project [Henning Schmiedehausen / Justin]

       See Attachment AL

       Justin to pursue a report for Velocity (and has already sent a
       reminder)

    AM. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Brett]

       See Attachment AM

    AN. Apache Xerces Project [Michael Glavassevich / Doug]

       See Attachment AN

    AO. Apache XML Project [Gianugo Rabellino / Greg]

       See Attachment AO

    AP. Apache XML Graphics Project [Simon Pepping / Jim]

       See Attachment AP

    Committee reports approved as submitted by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders
 
 8. Discussion Items

    A. Review Apache Project Branding Guidelines

    http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs
    
    Doug: I applaud your efforts. I think the draft looks good. As far
    as enforcing and rollout: perhaps we can ask each project to report
    (as a part of their normal reporting cycle) as to whether or not
    they are conforming to the policy.
    
    Brett: I expect the most controversial part is the TM on the logos.
    
    Shane: If we take our trademarks seriously, we should have a TM on
    the logo.
    
    Shane: we are also revising the feather to include various formats
    and sizes, and will be requesting that each project migrate to any
    updated version as time permits in the future.
    
    Jim: my takeaway is that the board is behind the direction: continue
    on
    
    Roy: we have traditionally avoided lawsuits, and TM's make us look
    corporate. Overall, I'm not thrilled, but am willing to go along.
    
    Doug: the lack of TM's has caused confusion in the past, and a TM's
    will help us socialize this
    
    = = =
    
    B. www.eclipselabs.org is neat. can we get one?
    
    Eclipselabs is for third parties, seems to be a good idea. Greg to
    pursue it. The name will need to be changes so as to not conflict
    with the existing labs.apache.org. Something like
    contrib.apache.org. Longer term, the lack of support for git is an
    issue that would need to be worked.
    
    = = =
    
    C. What to do about Santuario.
    
    Santuario is in the process of writing up a resolution naming a new
    chair. Jim proposes that we give them one more month. Jim to follow
    up.
    
    = = =
    
    D. What to do about iBATIS.

    First question to be resolved: have they ever produced an Apache release,
    and is there anybody interested in continuing at the ASF. If there are
    releases which were not approved by the PMC, those links need to be
    removed. If there is a release, then the ASF certainly would retain the
    name, it not the ASF may consider abandoning further use. Doug to inquire
    on the public dev list.
    
    = = =
    
    E. Setting date for annual members meeting/board elections?

    Tentative date proposed: July 13th and 15th.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Roy:    Follow-up with Buildr on their use of git.
              Status: not done yet

    * Roy:    Update /dev with rule that invitation only dev meetings are OK,
              provided that such meetings are discussed on the dev list, and
              that all committers are included.
              Status: not done yet

    * Brett:  Get with Carl Trieloff and suggest improvements to the
              Qpid report so that it can meet board expectations.
              Status: Done. This report seems better and they have resolved
                      the issue amongst themselves that caused confusion in
                      the last report.

    * Roy:    Suggest that Abdera recruit on the Atom lists.
              Status: not done yet

    * Serge:  Coordinate thank-you letters with Geir.
              Status: done

    * Greg:   Request a special report from Lucene & HADOOP on the status of
              each subproject with respect to diversity and splitting out
              as a TLP.
	      Status: done

    * Jim:    Follow up with Santuario to either get a proper report and name a
              new chair.
              Status: Complete... will be resolved at this meeting

    * Jim:    Follow up with David on whether TCL should become a candidate
              for the attic.
              Status: Complete

    * Sam:    File an Annual Report w/state of Delaware
              Status: as reported last month, while I attempted to file it,
                      my filing was rejected as a duplicate.  Apparently, this
                      was cleared up and handled as a part of filing Delaware
                      taxes.

    * Sam:    File JIRAs on officers access to mail archives
              Status: no longer planning on pursing it.  My needs are met,
                      and others seem not to have noticed.  I presume it will
                      be addressed promptly by infra if/when it becomes a
                      problem (as it was for me).

    * Geir:   Invoice Google for GSOC
                Status : work started 

    * Roy:    To convey to Lenya the board's expectations for the contents of
              the community section of board reports.
              Status: not done yet

    * Jim:    To request that Pivot reports include changes to PMC or
              committers.
              Status: Complete

    * Sam:    Investigate Xalan licensing dispute.
              Status: not done yet

    * Brett:  Pursue a report for ActiveMQ
              Status: report included in this month's agenda

    * Jim:    Contact Henri for a report for Attic
              Status: report included in this month's agenda

    * Jim:    Seek a report for iBATIS
              Status: see discussion item.

    * Jim:    Determine if the MINA moves to emeritus status is complete.
              Status: Yes so complete.

    * Shane:  Request that the OpenEJB report be resubmitted
              Status: report included in this month's agenda

    * Greg:   inform the Quetzalcoatl project that unless there is a new chair
              and monthly reports for three months that next months board
              agenda will have a resolution moving the project to the attic.
	      Status: progress has been made, Greg will continue to pursue

    * Jim:    Seek a report from TCL
              Status: complete

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

    A. Place holder for Santuario resolution

       No action taken.

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 01:46 p.m. (Pacific)

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP

Two things to report.  On the positive side,  the new approach to 
managing the TCKs seems to be going really well.  Kudos to Mark, 
Daniel for the main work, and lots of others for input.

On the down side, the recent JCP con-call resulted in no progress
on the Apache-Oracle Java SE TCK dispute.  Oracle continues to 
claim that they are working on the issue, consulting with 
others in the broader Java community, and need more time.  Our 
frustration with this position is widely shared within the EC
as everyone wants to get this and related JCP bugs past us and
move forward.  My personal theory at this point is that  some
entity has some kind of significant claim on IP or a contractual 
obligation that Oracle needs to figure out how to manage if they
do give us the TCK license.  I do believe that Oracle understands
the predicament that Java/JCP is in right now due to this issue 
and they are putting up with a lot of pressure for a real reason.

On a final note, it was pointed out that 2010 is the year we've
discussed as being the year we move away from NDAs for materials
for project use.  I'm fully in support of this but would like
to get to the end of the current Oracle fight before picking a new
one.  It may be the case that the issue is moot - if we can't
resolve the Java SE TCK issue, I believe that will mean that 
implementing Java technology in open source really isn't possible to 
do in a safe manner, and the ASF should simply stop doing it.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

Board-level item: See discussion item A; I'd like to ensure the
board is on board with these guidelines.

Operations And Community
========================

Published complete draft of Apache Project Branding Guidelines that
will be rolled out to projects shortly (see discussion item A).

Asked legal-internal@ to begin process of registering the "Apache"
name as a trademark with USPTO.  I plan to similarly register the
feather as well in the future once we clean up the graphics.  This
is part of my plan to ensure that we're clearly marking and claiming
our own trademarks.

Asked for volunteers on site-dev@ to add a "TM" to the feather graphic
and on other top-level sites.

Asked legal-internal@ for details of ensuring trademark rights of
logos, including a specific case related to a project logo.

Conduct internal [POLL] and determine that the ASF should accept
donations and maintain registrations of existing well-known domain
names containing our marks that PMCs wish to maintain as pointers
to their projects.


External Requests
=================
Answered various non-infringing related questions, including suggesting
best practices changes on Apache project websites.

Work is in progress with several organizations to correct infringements
of our marks in association with websites and a product.

Working with Hadoop PMC to determine proper use of potential new
security-related trademark which is also being requested for outside
(i.e. third party) use in relation to events and other giveaways.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

STATUS:

- Budget: the proposed 2010-2011 budget approved; initial funds will be
applied towards pre-purchasing discounted news wire distribution packs
(details at end of report).

- M&P/Brand Management/Fundraising Liaison: Sally forwarded brand
DNA/kit-of-part requirements to Shane for consideration of updating the ASF
logo. Sally is keeping connected with Serge regarding (legacy) sponsor
communications. Shane continues to post content to apache.org as solutions
to publish more easily are being explored.

- Press Releases: the following announcement was issued over PR Newswire,
posted on the ASF Foundation blog and distributed via the announce@ list --

4 May - The Apache Software Foundation Announces New Top-Level Projects

This announcement received more than 2,000 hits on the ASF Foundation blog
within the first 24 hours of going live. Approximately 20% of those
accessing the news came directly through the ASF Twitter feed.

- Media Relations: outreach continues, with the above press release
distributed under 24-hour embargo to our press/analyst-specific distribution
list. The story was picked up by several members of the press seeking
interviews in advance of the announcement going live, and resulted in
widespread international coverage, including the Bitsource, Cisco News,
Heise Online, InfoWorld, Internet.com, InternetNews, InternetWorld, JAX,
Linux Today, SDTimes, Server Watch, and TuxMachines, as well as numerous
technology blogs. The embargo was honored with no violations.

Sally was out of the office for most of the day that the press release went
live; several ASF members on the Marketing & Publicity team immediately
stepped up to assist wherever possible, and successfully handled all
incoming requests. A few PMC members also followed up directly with the
press regarding urgent queries, and were very considerate of working within
our guidelines whilst accommodating the time-sensitive nature of media
deadlines. (Many thanks, everyone!)

- Informal Announcements: we successfully launched the ASF's "Did You Know?"
Twitter campaign on 5 May with more than one dozen Apache-related factoids
posted with the support of numerous PMCs and users. We're still seeking
success stories - please forward to Sally at press-AT-apache-dot-org.

- Future Announcements: Sally was discussing a press release with the Tomcat
PMC announcing the release of Apache Tomcat 7; communications have quieted
over the past few weeks, and so will resume the discussion regarding their
intentions and our next steps.

- Media/Interviews/Outreach: we've been following up with InfoWorld, The H,
Linux User & Developer, and The WHIR, as well as some older interviews that
had taken place earlier in the year but haven't yet been published.

We're continuing to catch/flag instances of using the Apache brand in
events, on projects, products, and sites, and forward to their respective
"owners" -- Brand Management, PMCs, ConCom, etc.

- Analyst Relations: we obtained a quote from RedMonk for inclusion in the
TLP press release and coordinated analyst briefings for Apache Lucene/Mahout
with both Ovum Reports as well as RedMonk.

- ApacheCon liaison: Sally opened the CFP for Technical Talks on 1 May.
Submissions are being accepted for the following tracks: 1)Cassandra/NoSQL;
2) Content Technologies; 3) (Java) Enterprise Development; 4) Felix/OSGi; 5)
Geronimo; 6) Hadoop + friends/Cloud Computing; 7) Lucene, Mahout +
friends/Search; 8) Tomcat; and 9) Tuscany.

Sally reviewed/edited Stone Circle's sponsor prospectus, and is beginning to
outline the overall ApacheCon promotional campaign that includes retaining a
PR firm for conference-specific publicity. Sally will also be working with
Rich Bowen on producing new interviews for Feathercast that will help drive
interest in specific ApacheCon tracks as well as the conference as a whole.

- (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach:

Through ConCom, we will be working with the Open World Forum in October;
Sally will coordinate cross-promotion as our participation becomes more
defined.

Update to our participation at OSCON (19-23 July/Portland, Oregon): we will
still promote Michael Wechner's "A Short History of The ASF" documentary,
but due to production delays, will premier at ApacheCon in November, as
opposed to OSCON.

We received requests to participate in an Open Source conference in Ecuador,
as well as one in Egypt. Both queries were forwarded to ConCom.

- PR Newswire account: we have used 7 of the 10 pre-paid flat-rate press
releases on PR Newswire. The remaining releases are available until 6
October 2010. Sally has secured another set of 10 at the special non-profit
rate, and will forward invoices to the ASF Treasurer for payment processing.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

Work is ongoing to come up with a HTML specification license to permit reuse
of the spec text in both proprietary and open source code bases.  The W3C is
actively trying to prevent fragmentation of the standard.  Not clear if the
ASF should be taking a larger position.  My take: these changes are not
addressing any real need; those that have indicated a desire to reuse the
spec text are the ones whose needs are satisfied by the WHATWG copy of the
spec.  The real issue, namely the WHATWG/W3C split is not being addressed.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

More active than previous months, but still mostly quiet activity.  Two new
JIRA issues, 5 JIRA issues closed, one other JIRA issue worked.  No issues
for the board.

Significant activity supporting Brand Management as it relates to Trademark
Law.  Division of labor between the two efforts seems clear and no conflicts
to report.

Some discussion on what patents would be licensed to the ASF as a result of
contributions covered by ICLAs and CCLAs.  No clarifications resulted from
this discussion.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

For Apr 2010: There continues to be a steady stream of reports
of various kinds arriving at security@apache.org.  These continue to
be dealt with by the security team.

2      Support question
3      Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
2      Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
4      Vulnerability reports of which:
       2      Vulnerability report [wicket, via security@apache.org]
       2      Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

ApacheCon North America, Atlanta 2010
==============================
Sally has stepped up to fill the Programming Lead position, and has done a
fantastic job of getting things back on track. Communication has improved
immensely, and a small CFP is now open, focused on the selected tracks and
themes.

Tutorial selection is almost complete, and Rich, Noirin and Charel will work
with Cvent to ensure that tutorial registration is a better experience than
it has previously been.

Other news
==========
Emmanuel Lecharny has spearheaded our involvement in the Open World Forum
(Paris, October 2010). This looks like it will be a much better experience on
both sides than last year.

Nick Burch, Brett Porter and Aristedes Maniatis have stepped up to run an
Apache BarCamp in Sydney, provisionally in December. They're currently
working on finding a suitable venue.

The London Java Unconference organisers will run their second event in
London, June 26th, in association with the ASF. Several local members and
committers plan to be in attendance, and the organisers hope to give the
London Java community a sense of the wide variety of interesting projects
hosted at Apache.

Lucid Imagination have been given permission to use the name "Lucene
Revolution" for an event in Boston, September 2010. This is a for-profit
event, and there has been no objection from the Lucene PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Replaced a S300 software raid card with Perc 6i card in
aegis (builds).

Enforced a hard May 1, 2010 deadline for all admins to adopt
OPIE on all Linux and FreeBSD hosts at Apache.

Gavin McDonald upgraded Confluence to 3.2 - the latest available
version.  Dan Kulp was kind enough to patch the autoexport plugin
this time round, but we need to take another serious look at phasing
out confluence as a CMS, perhaps replacing it with Day's CQ5, in the
near future.

Initiated periodic password cracking program for our most sensitive
passwords, particularly LDAP passwords.  Early results identified
some 60 accounts vulnerable to dictionary-style attacks, and those
users have been contacted.  Also notable was the identification of
FreeBSD crypt as being a superior storage format for hashed passwords
as opposed to SSHA, so we are in the process of phasing out SSHA
for LDAP passwords.

We are in the process of compiling a list of accounts with security
issues that are no longer reachable via their apache.org email address.
Those will be the first group of accounts we close out.

We have cleaned up the root@ alias addresses and synced them with
committee-info.txt.  Notable changes were the removal of Roy Fielding,
Ted Husted, Joshua Slive, and Erik Abele, and the addition of Gavin
McDonald, Tony Stevenson, and Norman Maurer.

Due to port restrictions and lack of console access to Y! machines, the
Buildbot master was moved to the newly brought online 'aegis' builds
machine. The old host 'ceres' remains as a buildbot slave. Hudson master
is due to move across from Hudson.zones shortly.

Noirin Shirley was voted onto the Infrastructure Team for her editorial
work on the infra blog.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

Having our budget approved was great, and now means we are free to
focus on the events for the year.

We have opened applications so folks can now apply to TAC for assistance
in getting to the next ApacheCon NA 2010 in Atlanta. Applications will
remain open until around July 7th, plenty of time for folks to apply
and apps are starting to come in already.
We have our 3 judges in place, we are advertising and will continue to
advertise the applications open.

Things to do: we still need to organise a Travel Agent in the US, one
who will accept a one off wire transfer, rather than the piecemeal
credit card effort from last year.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Abdera Project

Apache Abdera provides Java implementations of the IETF Atom
Syndication Format and Publishing Protocol specifications. Abdera
graduated from the Incubator in November 2008 and then lost momentum
and has a fairly inactive developer community for most its life,
however this quarter there has been a lot of good progress and things
are looking brighter.

The old 1.0 release that was voted on back in Jan 2009 but never
published has now been published and the website updated.

The trunk code which has been unbuildable has been fixed, and nightly
builds are now running on Hudson. With the trunk buildable again old
JIRAs have had their patches applied, and a new release is planned in
the next week or two.

Two new committers have been vote in.

There is still a very small developer community but the future now
looks more promising.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

Apologies for missing the April board report deadline.

Community:
* The ActiveMQ project has had another very busy but quiet quarter.
* The development and user lists continue to stay vibrant.

Development:
* Working towards an ActiveMQ 5.4 release.

Releases:
* ActiveMQ 5.3.2
* ActiveMQ-CPP 3.1.2
* ActiveMQ 5.3.1
* ActiveMQ-CPP 3.1.1
* Apache.NMS.ActiveMQ v1.2.0
* Apache.NMS.Stomp v1.2.0
* Apache.NMS API 1.2.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Ant Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Attic Project

No issues for the board.

* Jakarta Taglibs moved to the Attic.
* Jakarta Slide needs moving.
* Nothing else in the pipeline.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Avro Project

This is the first status report from Apache
Avro as a TLP approved at the April 2010
board meeting. For the previous year, Apache
Avro was a subproject of Apache Hadoop.

The Apache infrastructure team has done a great
job of moving Apache Avro to be a TLP. The website,
subversion, mailing lists and buildbot have all
been moved. Avro releases are not available on all
mirrors yet but that will resolve itself with time.

== Issues ==

There are no issues that require the board's
attention at this time.

== Community ==

There are currently implementations for Avro in
C, C++, Java, Python and Ruby.  There is progress
being made on a .NET implementation of Avro as well.

There are ongoing discussions about the Avro RPC
specification.  Work has begun on adding MapReduce
support to Avro.

== Releases ==

Apache Avro has been making regular releases every
few months.  The last release was 1.3.2 on March
31, 2010.  We continue to make progress toward
our next release.  For example, there have been
a number of important bugfixes over the last month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Buildr Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache C++ Standard Library Project

Notable changes since previous report (February 2010):

  There has been virtually no project activity since the last report.
  Only a handful issues were reported, some privately to the VP of
  the project. No existing issues have been resolved.

  No new committers or PMC members have been added.

  The Sun KDE project uses and ships (or plans to ship) the last stable
  release of stdcxx, 4.2.1, with KDE as the default implementation of
  the C++ Standard Library. There is interest in continuing to do so
  but no KDE volunteers have stepped up so far to help with stdcxx.

Future plans:

  Release the stdcxx 4.2.2 bugfix update. Attempt to increase project
  activity and find and set up an alternate build and test infrastructure.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Cassandra Project

Cassandra is a distributed database similar to Google's Bigtable
or Amazon's Dynamo.

--Highlights--

Digg hosted a Cassandra meetup and Hackathon in San Francisco. [1]
Cassandra was represented at NoSQL EU (dubbed "VolcaNoSQL") and
will be at this year's JavaOne [no link available yet].

[1] http://cassandrahackathon.eventbrite.com/
[2] http://www.slideshare.net/jbellis/cassandra-nosql-eu-2010

--Releases--

0.6.1

--Community--

Mailing list participation grew from 960 in March to 1495 in April.

Gary Dusbabek was voted into the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Click Project

Apache Click is an easy-to-use page and component oriented Java web framework.
There are no board level issues at this time.

Infrastructure
-------------------
No issues

Development
------------------

There has been a substantial development effort this quarter leading
up to the release of Apache Click 2.2.0:

8 May 2010 - Apache Click 2.2.0-RC1 was released on 8th May 2010

Apache Click 2.2.0 final release is currently being voted on for
release this month.

Community
----------------
Mailing list traffic have been steady


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project

There were no new committers or PMC members this quarter. No new
releases. Thread on developer's list about fate of Cocoon 2.1.x
branch spurred some maintenance activity, raising possibility of
another maintenance release. Development continues in the trunk
on the next Cocoon 3 alpha.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Community Development Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Continuum Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache CouchDB Project

Apache CouchDB is a distributed JSON document database with HTTP API.

0.11.0 was released, a beta release. The next major release will be 1.0.

0.10.2 was released (security fix CVE 2010-0009).

Enhancements to the replicator, optimizations to file io and fixes to 
configuration are now in trunk.

Full windows support is coming with the latest releases of Erlang + CouchDB

CouchDB: The Definitive Guide has been published with O'Reilly. There's 
ongoing work to make the sources available to the open source community.

Our documentation wiki got a lot of attention thanks to Sebastian Cohnen.

Palm announces replication interop of their embedded DB8 with CouchDB. Work
to port CouchDB to Android is nearly complete.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Forrest Project

Apache Forrest mission is software for generation of aggregated multi-channel
documentation maintaining a separation of content and presentation.

Issues needing board attention:
  None.

Changes in the PMC membership:
  None.

General status:
  Development is quiet.

  On the dev mail list, the developers are assisting each other.

  Issues on the user mail list are being attended to by a couple of PMC
  members. A little more activity than last quarter.

  A few PMC members did some work towards sorting out the issues needing to
  be addressed prior to our upcoming release.

  Commenced a discussion about some aspects of deciding the content of the
  upcoming release. Not sufficient progress yet.

  Thanks to Brian Dube and Tim Williams who were elected as new ASF Members
  at the recent Members meeting.

Progress of the project:

  Made a decision to use Java 1.5 for the upcoming release. The vote received
  response from various PMC members.

  A couple of PMC members resolved an issue with the license of a supporting
  product, which was one of the release holdups.

  Worked on an issue with our docs build demo of JIRA reports interaction.
  Received help from a committer from another project. Thanks.

  No releases since 0.8 on 2007-04-18.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache HBase Project

HBase is a distributed column-oriented database built on top of Hadoop
Common and HDFS.

Releases:
* 0.20.4 on 2010/05/03 -- 81 fixes.
* There is currently a release candidate out for 0.20.5

We are still awaiting our mailing list and repository move (INFRA-2641).
Once this is done we'll be adding at least one new committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

Not much has transpired since the March (belated February) report.  The
current release remains 2.2.15.  Further progress towards a legacy 2.0.64
has been made, which will likely happen due to the various security patches
that are currently offered.  The beta of trunk is still 2.3.5.  Dr. Stephen
Henson was granted committership, while there has been no change to the PMC
roster.

Approximately 10 httpd committers attended the Wicklow gathering, although
only a handful were primarily focused on the httpd project for this face
time, with many other projects enjoying exciting project milestones.
Several committers briefed one another on the state of server push protocols,
and the hybi WG effort in particular.  Some resulting form of bidirectional
HTTP support will likely influence future HTTP Server request/response
processing models.  Several other brainstorming discussions erupted, and
stale issues revisited, which have resulted in dev list proposals from the
respective committers and various bursts of development and documentation
activities.

Sander Temme orchestrated the talk selection for HTTP Server Project
presence in Atlanta this fall, leveraging the voter tool to poll the PMC on
the selected talks.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache HttpComponents Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

During the past month, the Incubator has added a fair number of new PMC
Members:

 Chris Mattmann
 David Jencks
 Gurkan Erdogdu
 Tom White
 Jean-Frederic Clere
 Julien Vermillard
 Christian Grobmeier (elected)
 Donald Woods

All of them joined with the specific intent of mentoring projects, of which
we have quite a few (reflected by all of the new PMC members). Proposed
projects included Whirr (libraries for running cloud services), Zeta (PHP
components), Amber (OAuth Java library), and Deltacloud (web service API for
cloud service clients/providers).

WSRP4J was terminated at the mutual decision with the Portals PMC.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

= BeanValidation =
Apache Bean Validation will deliver an implementation of the JSR303 Bean
Validation 1.0 specification. BVAL entered incubation on March 1, 2010.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:

First release of artifacts. Grow the community and committer base.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC or ASF Board might wish/need to be aware
of:

None at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report:

The community has been focused on resolving TCK failures, with lots of help
coming from contributor Carlos Vara. Apache OpenJPA trunk is now using our
artifacts as their default provider for Bean Validation testing. Two other
projects (one at the ASF) have mentioned they are using our artifacts
instead of Hibernate.

How has the project developed since the last report:

Confluence is setup as our website and has been fully populated. SNAPSHOT
artifacts are being published to repository.apache.org. TCK testing is being
run by 3 or 4 committers and contributors.


= Bluesky =

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

We are still waiting for Bill to check the completeness of the release
candidate. Things we've done recently:

* Coding to optimize DTU structure, still under going;
* Testing IPv6 and satellite module;

One thing left to the first release:

* cast release vote in general list.

= Clerezza =

Clerezza (incubating since November 27th, 2009) is an OSGi-based modular
application and set of components (bundles) for building RESTFul Semantic
Web applications and services. The are currently no issues requiring board
attention.

Recent activity:

   * Updated to the latest Felix framework (including security features)
   * Improved typerendering with regex-pattern and renderlets for literal
types
   * Update to TDB 0.8.5
   * Presented Clerezza at the Apache Retreat
   * Manuel Innerhofer participated in the IKS FISE hackathon
(http://wiki.iks-project.eu/index.php/FISE), Clerezza modules are used in
FISE.

Next steps:

   * Enhance UIMA integration
   * Integration with Tika

Top 2/3 Issues before graduation:

   * Improve our website with tutorials and "getting started" content.
   * Prepare some easy-to-run demos to get people interested in Clerezza.
   * Prepare for a first release


= Droids =

Droids is an Incubator project arrived from Apache Labs. Droids entered
incubation on October, 2008.

It's an intelligent standalone robot framework that allows one to create and
extend existing web robots.

What we've completed in the last months:

* new elected committers: Bertil Chapuis and Richard Frovarp;
* the community has organized a community day to fix nearly all open
tickets with patch
* release preparation are under going

Issues before graduation :

* Do a release
* IP clearance


= HISE =

The goal of HISE is to provide support for the WS-Human-Task 1.0
Specification.  HISE started Incubation in November 2009.

HISE did not file a report.  Checking the mailing lists shows that there
have been 5 messages in the past 2 1/2 months, a marked drop off from the
first quarter of 2010.  Likewise there has been a single commit since the
end of March.  The project will be pinged to find out what is going on
there.


= Libcloud =

Libcloud is a unified interface into various cloud service providers,
written in python. Libcloud joined the Incubator on November 3rd, 2009.

We're on the cusp of pushing 0.3.2 out the door, with our last release 0.3.1
on 10 May 2010.

Over the past few months we have:

* Added driver support for new providers: Dreamhost, Eucalyptus, Enomaly
ECP, IBM Developer Cloud, and SoftLayer
* Improved multi-threaded handling in Rackspace and RimuHosting
* Created deployment and bootstrap API
* Expanded test coverage
* Augment documentation

We look forward to further improving documentation and lowering the barrier
to entry with tutorials and a guide for writing drivers.  We will continue
to add providers and keep the library updated with providers' changes.


= Lucene Connector Framework =

Description:

Lucene Connectors Framework is an incremental crawler framework and set of
connectors designed to pull documents from various kinds of repositories
into search engine indexes or other targets. The current bevy of connectors
includes Documentum (EMC), FileNet (IBM), LiveLink (OpenText), Patriarch
(Memex), Meridio (Autonomy), SharePoint (Microsoft), RSS feeds, and web
content. Lucene Connectors Framework also provides components for individual
document security within a target search engine, so that repository security
access conventions can be enforced in the search results.

Lucene Connectors Framework has been in incubation since January, 2010.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:

1. End-user documentation conversion to usable form needs to be completed;
this is probably the biggest obstacle to developing a broader community at
this point
2. Javadoc and nightly builds need to be set up
3. The first official release needs to be planned and executed

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?

We'd like to know whether there is any official Apache position on
inclusion of NTLM implementations in ASF projects, since we've gotten mixed
signals on this from other developers. This represents a crucial piece of
functionality needed to support LiveLink, Meridio, SharePoint, RSS, and Web
connectors properly.

How has the community developed since the last report?

There's been a significant amount of discussion pertaining to the LCF
document security model, it's advantages and disadvantages.  Offers of
assistance and advice abound.  A non-Apache code submission has even been
made.

How has the project developed since the last report?

Preliminary security integration with Solr has been tackled.  Online
end-user documentation is coming along and is perhaps 60% complete.  Scripts
have been written to make using LCF easier for the less experienced
integrator.


= OODT =

Description:

OODT is a grid middleware framework for science data processing,
information integration, and retrieval. OODT is used on a number of
successful projects at Jet Propulsion Laboratory/ California Institute of
Technology (http://jpl.nasa.gov/, and many other research institutions and
universities.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:

1. Port OODT code and license headers into ASF license headers
2. OODT contributions from at least 2 other organizations besides JPL
3. At least one OODT incubating release, hopefully in the first few months

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?

No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

Chris Mattmann mentioned OODT as a possible extension for Whirr, proposed by
Tom White in the Incubator. We had some input from Justin
(http://www.mail-archive.com/oodt-dev@incubator.apache.org/msg00050.html)
progressing on OODT-3 (http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-3), and
leveraging tools like RAT to do the license checking and verification needed
to close out the issue. Much of the other activity continues to be from the
mentors and committers.

How has the project developed since the last report?

OODT was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on January 22, 2010.

Development over the last month has centered on OODT-3 (cleaning up the OODT
code and config license headers), with contributions from Sean McCleese, and
on OODT-15 (one top-level build for OODT, and one trunk, tags and branches). 
OODT-15 in particular included some community discussion and a lazy consensus
to move forward. Chris Mattmann is nearly complete on this reorganization,
which, coupled with OODT-3 should provide for a great 1st incubating release
along with some documentation transferring and getting the website up and
running (https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-16), which Sean Kelly has
volunteered to spearhead.



= PhotArk =

Apache PhotArk will be a complete open source photo gallery application
including a content repository for the images, a display piece, an access
control layer, and upload capabilities.

* PhotArk was accepted for Incubation on August 19, 2008.
* Issues before graduation :
 * PhotArk started as a project with no initial code-base, and we have
grown the community to the minimal 3 independent committer size required for
graduation and have been seeing slow but continuous interest in the project.
We might be soon in a position to discuss graduation if others don't see an
independent, active but small community as an issue.

* Suhothayan Sriskandaraj has been voted as Committer for Apache PhotArk
* The PhotArk community continues to make good progress code wise
* Three project ideas has been accepted for GSoC 2010 program
* PhotArk M2 release is under review.



= SIS =

SIS was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on February 21, 2010.

Apache SIS is a toolkit that spatial information system builders or users
can use to build applications containing location context. This project
will look to store reference implementations of spatial algorithms,
utilities, services, etc. as well as serve as a sandbox to explore new
ideas. Further, the goal is to have Apache SIS grow into a thriving Apache
top-level community, where a host of SIS/GIS related software (OGC
datastores, REST-ful interfaces, data standards, etc.) can grow from and
thrive under the Apache umbrella.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware
of?

Not at this time

Community progress since the last report:

Chris Mattmann, Patrick O'Leary and Kevan Miller participated in a meeting
with ESRI (http://www.esri.com) who may be interested in participating
within the project within some capacity. This would be a huge win as ESRI is
one of the major industry leaders in the development of GIS software, with
connections to standards bodies including the Open Geospatial Consortium
(OGC). Much of the other activity continues to be from the mentors and
committers.

Project progress since last report

Chris Mattmann is working on refactoring the LocalLucene code into the SIS
codebase and work continues on creating the SIS incubator website, with Sean
McCleese leading the charge. Patrick O'Leary is investigating map
projections and coordinate systems including transformations to Polar
coordinates which should help on the observational data side.



= Stonehenge =

Stonehenge has been incubating since December 2008. Stonehenge is a set of
example applications for Service Oriented Architecture that spans languages
and platforms and demonstrates best practices and interoperability by using
currently defined W3C OASIS standard protocols.

Since the last report in February 2010, the Stonehenge project has
intensified its efforts around interop testing between the M2 implementation
of the claims-based security model extension to the Stock Trader
implementations. Testing between .NET, Axis2/Java and Metro/Glassfish
implementations have uncovered various bugs and were subsequently corrected
in the web services library and the application code.

Milestone 2 (M2)

M2 constituted of expanding the Stocktrader application to use claims-based
authentication using an active and a passive STS for each implementation. We
also upgraded the usage of the WS-* specs from the submitted versions to the
ratified one. Extensive documentation work was done in parallel to describe
the new feature set and simplify the installation and configuration process.

In our last report we were preparing to vote for M2, unfortunately the
testing efforts are still underway and we continue to find issues that we
hope to resolve in the near future. We are currently investigating which if
any products or implementations are holding us up from releasing and
addressing them in an effort to release a stable version to our users.

Milestone 3 (M3)

A proposal has been submitted for creating "micro samples" for many common
WS-* scenarios, with the goal being around creating implementations with low
barriers to entry. The proposal can be found at
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/STONEHENGE-121. The community is
anxiously awaiting the release of M2 so that we can get started on this
project with hopes that releases can be made on a more frequent basis.

Graduation Map:

* Grow community around new claims based stocktrader implementations just
added
* More thorough documentation that empowers developers to replicate
interoperability scenarios demonstrated
* Demonstrate full interoperability between existing components, and
release


= Thrift =

Thrift has been discussing what is required for it to move forwards - most
notably in relation to releases. While many developers work off their own
branches, and therefore do not require or need formal releases, they do
accept the need for releases. As a way to encourage releasing, a proposal
was made to have a release manager. As a result of this suggestion, Bryan
Duxbury was voted in as the Thrift release manager, and is intending to take
on regular releases.

One-off report from Upayavira


= VCL =

VCL has been incubating since December 2008. VCL is a cloud computing
platform for the management of physical and virtual machines.

Community Involvement:

* As stated in the previous report, the Apache VCL community continues to
grow. We're seeing more and more people start to contribute to our online
documentation and file JIRA issues.
* A few people from the community have been contacted by PPMC members
encouraging them to become more involved in the project.
* We continue to see people from new locations asking questions on the
vcl-dev list which shows that interest in VCL is continuing to grow.
* Interest from the community to have support for a more recent version of
VMWare Free Server drove the decision to swap that feature (originally
slated for VCL 2.3) with cluster reservation improvements (originally
slated for VCL 2.2).

Plans for next Release:

* We hope to have our next release out by the end of June. This would be
1/2 the time it took to get our previous release out. We hope to continue
to shorten the time between releases as we move forward.

Documentation:

* Migration of official documentation to our second Confluence space has
started. The next step is to pick an autoexport template, and then set up a
cronjob to copy the autoexported content to our official documentation
location.

Top Issues Before Graduation:

* Continue to increase contributors from multiple institutions


= Wink =

Apache Wink is a project that enables development and consumption of REST
style web services. The core server runtime is based on the JAX-RS (JSR 311)
standard. The project also introduces a client runtime which can leverage
certain components of the server-side runtime. Apache Wink will deliver
component technology that can be easily integrated into a variety of
environments.

Apache Wink has been incubating since 2009-05-27.

Notable Activity:

* In the middle of a Wink 1.1 release.  A few license issues were resolved
in the incubator regarding dual licensing.  More bug fixes and JAX-RS 1.1
changes for the non-Java EE 6 integration pieces were added.

* Did some initial OSGi work.  Looking for feedback here to see where to
expand.

* Some work done to improve the syndication models.

Planned Activity:

* Continue the release

Top issues before graduation:

* Build community


= Wookie =

No issues currently require IPMC or Board attention

Notable activities:

* Voted raido in as a committer
* Core W3C Widget parser has been split off into a standalone library for
use in other applications
* Implemented a connector framework to support developers building plugins
to add Wookie support to their applications. Versions created for Java, C#,
Python and PHP
* Implemented the W3C Widgets Access Request Policy candidate
recommendation: see http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets-access/
* Work progressing on implementing the W3C Widget Updates draft
specification: see http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets-updates/
* JIRA Activity continues to grow
* Interest from Android community in porting the Wookie parser library
* Fixed Shindig integration

Items to be resolved before graduation:

* Remove GPL dependencies
* Create a release
* Develop community


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Lenya Project

Apache Lenya is a Cocoon based XML/XHTML content management system.

Issues:

   No board level issues at this time.

Development:

  It's been a quiet quarter in regards to development.

Community:

  A developer and community meeting is being planned for the RMLL conference
    in Bordeaux at the beginning of July.
  A presentation at the conference will also be given.
  Received two community reports of sites going live using Lenya.
  Vote for a committer is currently open.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Logging Project

- Community

No changes to PMC membership or committers in this period.

- Development

log4j 1.2:

log4j 1.2.16 was released on April 6 after several years of
good intentions.  A few loose ends with OSGi and Maven
metadata may warrant a 1.2.17 in the near future.
Releases for several of the log4j "companions" are
expected this quarter.

log4j 2.0:

Ralph Goers contributed a substantial body of code on
May 13th in the log4j 2.0 development sandbox.
We are in the initial stages of digesting the contribution.
As the code was developed off-list, it appears
that it will require IP clearance through the incubator.

log4cxx:

No development activity this period.  Mailing lists
are reasonably active.  log4cxx has been reported not to compile
with Visual Studio 2010 and will likely warrant a
release in the next quarter.

log4net:

No development activity this quarter.  There have been
some questions regarding compatibility with the recent
.NET Framework 4 release that have not been resolved.

log4php:

log4php has graduated the incubator, has active development
and a healthy community.

Chainsaw:

Substantial development this period.  A release push is
expected this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Mahout Project

=== Mahout Status Report: May 2010 ===

(This is the first report from Mahout as a top-level Apache project;
previously it was a subproject of Apache Lucene. Mahout
recently reported status with Lucene's special April report. We take the
opportunity to summarize Mahout state and restate recent activity.)

ISSUES

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

OVERVIEW

Mahout's goal is to build scalable implementations of machine learning and
data mining algorithms. "Scalable" means designed with exceptional scale in
mind, for efficiency and low memory consumption, and in many cases means
providing Hadoop-based implementations. The "machine learning" implemented
to date has been primarily in the broad areas of:

- Collaborative filtering / recommender engines
- Clustering
- Classification
- Frequent item set mining
- Evolutionary algorithms

CURRENT ACTIVITY

Mahout has created a release approximately every six months, most recently
releasing version 0.3 in March 2010. The project remains in a state of
rapid change and evolution, and looks to release 0.4 in September, 2010.
Recent activity in the project can be viewed here:

https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?
  pid=12310751&fixfor=12314396&resolution=1

This month, Mahout will complete migration of website, mailing lists,
SVN, and other information to reflect its status as a top-level project.

GOOGLE SUMMER OF CODE

Mahout will mentor five projects as part of Google's Summer of Code
program. The projects will add or enhance capability in the specific
areas of:

- Boltzmann Machines
- Support Vector Machines
- Singular Value Decomposition for recommendations
- Neural network with back propagation learning
- Eigencuts spectral clustering

MAHOUT IN ACTION

The book "Mahout in Action", published by Manning, continues to be written
and is approximately half complete. It has received some favorable feedback
via Manning's early access program.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Nutch Project

This is the first report of the Nutch project as a TLP. Before April
2010 Nutch was a subproject of Apache Lucene.

Moving to TLP
=============
User, dev, and private mailing lists have been migrated to their new
locations under @nutch.apache.org. SVN and site have been moved to new
locations as well - see INFRA-2656 and INFRA-2657. In the following
weeks we plan to complete the move to restore all environment to a
working state under the new locations.

Development
===========
The project is in the process of releasing version 1.1, expected to be
completed within a week. Community started discussing the design of the
next version of Nutch. There are many significant architectural changes
planned for the next version, in order to reduce code duplication and to
benefit from other Apache components, such as Tika, Solr and HBase. A
version of Nutch that uses an ORM framework to support different storage
implementations is expected to be merged with trunk/ some time during Q3.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache OpenEJB Project

OpenEJB 3.0.2 was released in early April, primarily focused on supporting
the Geronimo 2.1.5 release.

Major development activity has been around new support for JAX-RS and JPA
2.0, upgrading ActiveMQ versions, EJB 3.1 @LocalBean support, major overhaul
of Stateless pooling code and JMX monitoring.  Trunk moved from 3.1.next
(java ee 5 and java 5) and mostly stable to 3.next (java ee 6 and java 6). A
branch has been spun off for 3.1.next development and so far remains quite
close to trunk minus some java ee 6 features.

User list traffic now getting heavy enough that there are more questions
than answers.  Something to keep a close eye on as the community continues to
grow.  The developer side of the project shows signs of growth as well with a
few new promising contributors who are themselves users.  These things tend
to fluctuate, hopefully we can pull in some new active committers while we
are trending upward.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

-- mod_perl 1.0 --

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work with httpd
1.3.x.

No new mod_perl 1.x releases since the last report.


--- mod_perl 2.0 --

mod_perl 2.X is designed to work with all httpd 2.X branches.

No new mod_perl 2.x releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Test --

Apache-Test provides a framework which allows module writers to write
test suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.  It is
used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party applications, and
includes support for Apache modules written in C, mod_perl, PHP
and Parrot.

Apache-Test 1.32 was released 15 Apr 2010


--- Apache-SizeLimit --

Apache-SizeLimit is a popular component in most mod_perl production
environments.  It is used to kill off large httpd child processes
based on various environmental triggers.

No new Apache-SizeLimit releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Bootstrap --

Apache-Bootstrap is a framework to make it easier to build perl
module distributions for different mod_perl versions.  It encapsulates
code developed over the years by mod_perl developers to make
maintaining Apache::* and Apache2::* modules in the same distribution easy.

No new Apache-Bootstrap releases since the last report.


--- Apache-Reload --

Apache-Reload is a popular component in most mod_perl development
environments, used to refresh compiled code in the perl interpreter
without completely restarting httpd.

No new Apache-Reload releases since the last report.


-- Apache-DBI --

Apache-DBI is a popular component in many mod_perl deployments. It
is used to provide transparent database connection pooling to clients
using DBI.

Apache-DBI 1.08 was released 03 Feb 2010.



-- Development --

mod_perl continues to be a healthy development community, though
as a mature and stable product development moves at a naturally
slower pace than in years past.  Bugs are found and discussed and
applied with due consideration for our production userbase.


-- Users --

The mod_perl users list is, as always, thriving.  nothing noteworthy
has happened since the last report.


-- PMC --

The PMC voted for the inclusion of Torsten Foertsch in the Perl PMC.
He gracefully accepted the invitation on April 8th, 2010.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache POI Project

Community
---------
In the last quarter, we haven't added any new committers. However, someone who
has submitted several good patches in the past has returned, and intends to
submit some more. We expect to have a committership vote shortly, once CLAs
are in. However, no new people on the lists are currently showing
committership potential, though we remain on the lookout as ever.

We do currently have a slight problem with the rate at which submitted
patches are being applied, with some patches waiting quite a lot longer than
usual for review or commit. This seems to be due to all the people who
normally review and commit contributed patches being very busy at the same
time. Hopefully this will sort itself out naturally as people's schedules
move back out of sync, and is something we're all very aware of.

Traffic on the dev list is very slightly down, while the user list remains
steady. Mark continues to be the pmc member most likely to answer user
questions or produce new example code, for which we're all very grateful!

Encryption
----------
Developers from SAS asked a number of questions about encryption, and our
export notification. The more technical questions about our use, and the
reason for filing for the notification were discussed and answered on the
list. For the legal questions, they were pointed at the appropriate
foundation lists. We haven't heard back from them since then, so we assume
they're now sorted...

Releases
--------
No new releases this quarter, and our last release (3.6) was back in
December. It's expected that there will be a new release next quarter, once
people have a bit more time, and all pending patches are applied.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Qpid Project

Qpid 0.6, a major release has been completed and released. This
release includes many improvements including new addressing support
and high level APIs. The release took a while to get out, but is a
solid update from 0.5. The discussion for next release has
started. The project is working to increase the number of releases
made each year.

The community of users and those submitting patches continues to
increase. There seems to be a notable increase in patch submissions
from new names to the project.

There is currently an effort under-way to rework the website and
documentation to improve the user experience with regard to the
project.

No issues to report at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Quetzalcoatl Project

My sincere apologies to the board for missing the report deadline!

Quetz continues to remain mostly dormant. Although today someone posted a
mod_python bug report to the list, the first in many months.

There have been suggestions regarding moving the project to the attic. I am
contemplating this, it doesn't appear to be the obviously correct move at this
point, because the scope of Quetzalcoatl is wider than just mod_python and it
doesn't seem like there is nothing to do, the issue is mostly that the
original contributors for whatever reasons have been busy and are not
contributing currently. This is an on-going discussion, and I think by the
next quarter report time we will have decided on what the the best thing to do
is. If the board has any opinions on it, do not hesitate to email the PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

Apache Roller is a full-featured, Java-based weblogging package that
works well on Tomcat and MySQL, and is also known to run on other
servers and databases.

Since the last report the project has completed work on moving the
project to Maven 2, fixed remaining bugs, and has made an Apache
Roller 5.0 Release Candidate (RC1) build available. This build is not
a release and we are making it available for testing purposes only.

We also created a What's New page outlining the new features coming in 5.0:
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER/What's+new+in+Roller+5.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Subversion Project

** Board Issues

The Subversion project has no Board-level issues at this time.

** Community

We have seen some patches and interest from new people on the list,
and are paying close attention to them, so they will feel welcome and
hopefully join the community.

** Releases

Since we last reported (March), Subversion made a 1.6.11 release under
its old header/licensing regime (continuing on the 1.5.x and 1.6.x
branches; 1.7.0 will be the first ASF release). We are hoping for 1.7
to occur late this summer, and the development community continues to
work on that release.

We are planning to put all prior releases (back to 1.0 and possibly
earlier) onto archive.apache.org for historical preservation. Some of
the historical (signed) tarballs include LGPL dependent elements, so
we will carefully label these (we cannot remove them without
destroying the original signatures). More recent releases separate the
dependencies, and we will simply omit those (they are optional). The
1.7 series will use the standard distribution and mirroring framework
since they are true ASF releases.

** Other

The issue tracker continues to remain offsite, as nobody is in any
great rush to tackle that project (nor is there a specific known
requirement for that to happen; just a desire of the project).

The March Subversion event in NYC went well, producing a suggested
roadmap that has been well-received and signed-off by the community.
The Berlin Subversion event is on-track for the 10th through the 13th,
and an "Apache dinner" will also be held during that time.

We acquired one GSoC student who will improve the diff format
generation to support additional options.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

We have some good news: Massimo Manghi has stepped up and taken the
lead on a new release (2.0) of Apache Rivet, which went out last week.
A big thanks to him for his work.

The other projects are all in steady-maintenance mode - watched over,
but not particularly active.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache Tika Project

This is the first report from Apache Tika in its new TLP status approved at
the April 2010 board meeting.

TLP migration
=========================
Progress is being made in transitioning Tika off of the Lucene site and
infrastructure and into its new TLP home. The current status is:

(Gavin from the INFRA team grouped the below into a TLP migration task [1])

1. mailing lists migration, filed INFRA-2645 [2], Gavin working on it as of
last Saturday

2. SVN, filed INFRA-2646 [3], status is same as for #1

3. UNIX groups, and home on www.apache.org/dist [4], status same as #1

4. Domain name for tika.apache.org [5], status same as #1

Releases
=========================
Steady progress on the 0.8 Tika release is being made, with contributions
made to add more file formats (netCDF is a recent addition), to allow Tika
to be used in server environments with their own classloaders (like Apache
SOLR), and to improve image metadata extraction. We hope to release 0.8
within the next month or so.

Community
=========================
The Tika community reached out to the NetCDF community in order to get their
NetCDF jars released to Maven central (currently TIKA-400 [6] relies on
NetCDF jars from an external Maven2 repository that's not synced with
Central). Jukka Zitting pointed out that this isn't a best practice, so we
are working with the NetCDF community to resolve this, and they have been
receptive [7], in particular John Caron from UCAR/NCAR is working to help us
out.

[1] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-2692
[2] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-2645
[3] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-2646
[4] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-2647
[5] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-2676
[6] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA-400
[7] http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/lucene-tika-dev/201004.mbox/%3C4BD758B7.60202@unidata.ucar.edu%3E


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache Traffic Server Project

This is the first report for Apache Traffic Server since our graduation
from the Incubator in April 2010. Working with the Infra-ops team, we have
successfully moved all our resources out of the incubator area, and into
the trafficserver.apache.org domain.  This includes our new web site, at
http://trafficserver.apache.org/.

The community has released the first official Apache Traffic Server
release, v2.0.0. This release is available from the dist mirrors, in the
appropriate trafficserver area. The community has also grown with the
addition of Jason Giedymin as a new committer.

Work is in progress to release the first developer release (v2.1.0), the
goal is to have this completed before end of May. In parallel, we are
making fixes to the 2.0.0 release branch, in preparation for our first
bug-fix release (v2.0.1).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache Turbine Project

Status
======

The Turbine project has as usual seen fairly low levels of
activity in the last quarter.

The Turbine project has no board-level issues at this time.

Community changes
=================

No new committers were voted in since the last board report.

No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.

Turbine core project
====================

Thomas Vandahl has made the first commits to the Turbine core
project for some time. This is a sign that the externalization
of services into Fulcrum components is nearing completion.

No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

Fulcrum component project
=========================
Work on migrating the build process of the Fulcrum components
to Maven 2 continues.

Releases this quarter:
* fulcrum-jetty 1.0.0 was released on 8 March 2010.
* fulcrum-cache 1.1.0 was released on 20 May 2010.

META project
============

There has been no activity on the META sub-project in this quarter.

No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Status report for the Apache Tuscany Project

Apache Tuscany is an SOA framework based on OASIS OpenCSA and SCA.
There are no board level issues at this time.

In the last quarter there have no release of the main code bases but
there were a couple of associated Maven plugin releases, and releases
of the 2.x trunk code and a 1.x sample are being actively worked on.

One new committer has been added and a GSoC student was accepted to
work on a Tuscany project. Tuscany was one of the projects used at the
GDC Open Source day in London with Tuscany committers helping students
get experience working on open source.

Mailing list traffic is down slightly but subscriber numbers remain steady.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AK: Status report for the Apache UIMA Project

Apache UIMA's mission: the creation and maintenance of open-source
software related to the analysis of unstructured data, guided by the
UIMA Oasis Standard.

Moving to TLP
- - - - - - -
In the last month, we completed our move to a TLP, and are almost finished
with the updates needed for making use of a major redesign of how we use
Maven to do our builds and releases that uses the standard Apache Maven
Parent POM and the Apache Nexus repository installation.

The website was updated to remove "incubator" things, including some
graphics.

Releases
- - - -
none yet (as a TLP), we hope to do one in the next month or 2.

2010-1-26 2.3.0 (Incubator - last release) release of Java SDK, Annotator
                add-on package, UIMA-AS (Async scaleout), and UIMA-CPP
                (C++ enablement)

Development
- - - - - -
Lots of work in devising a new way to use Maven that is much more aligned
with the conventional way of doing things.

We still have a significant number of issues remain in Jira, postponed
from the last release.  More progress should get made on these after
our Maven re-alignment work is finished.

Some issues regarding large scale use of UIMA-AS were reported and fixed.

Public Relations
- - - - - - - -
Sally Khudairi included a write-up about Apache UIMA in her PR blog, etc.
this past month (Thanks!).

Community
- - - - -
No changes

Issues
- - -
No Board level issues at this time


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AL: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AM: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

There have been no releases this quarter for Xalan-C or Xalan-J

There has been a small to moderate amount of activity on the project's
mailing lists. The activity around implementing XSLT 2.0 for Xalan-J
is heating up, with some posters being encouraged to contribute
patches with the goal of becoming committers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AN: Status report for the Apache Xerces Project

Xerces-J

The response for Google Summer of Code this year was amazing. There
were at least 6 students who joined the mailing lists to discuss
their project ideas and to work with the community on building their
proposals, some before we had posted any project ideas for 2010 in
JIRA. Due in large part to the increased interest in GSoC, March was
the busiest month on the development mailing list (with >180 posts)
since April 2004. After the ranking process completed three students
(Ishan Jayawardena, Udayanga Wickramasinghe and Sanjaya Liyanage)
were selected for XML Schema and XPointer related projects they
proposed for Xerces-J. Undoubtedly development activity will
increase over the summer with all these new contributors.

We're still working on getting a Xerces-J 2.10.0 release out. At
this point it's mostly just a matter of resolving a handful or JIRA
issues and writing documentation. Just needs a final push to make it
a reality.

Xerces-C++

Xerces-C++ 3.1.1 was released on the 27th of February. This release
includes a number of fixes for bugs that were uncovered after the
release of 3.1.0 a few months ago. This release also has been tested
with and includes project/solution files for Visual Studio 2010
(10.0).

Xerces-P

No activity during the reporting period.

XML Commons

No development activity though some time was spent on cleaning up
some old issues in Bugzilla. In particular, we finally got around to
responding to the bug report
(https://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=44426) by the
W3C on the excessive number of requests they receive for the same
DTDs, XML Schemas and other XML resources. Xerces-J already bundles
the XML Commons Resolver and provides documentation on how to use
it. While we're sympathetic to the W3C's plight we feel there's
nothing more that we can do, since changing the default behaviour
(which has been that way for over 10 years) in Xerces-J has the
potential to break a large number of existing applications.

General

We have two new PMC members. Mukul Gandhi and Khaled Noaman were
added to the PMC at the beginning of May.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AO: Status report for the Apache XML Project

No issues requiring board attention for the XML project, which has
been dormant as usual. No releases or committers in Xindice, yet the
very few requests on the mailing list are being answered, and bugs are
being fixed. Next quarter will hopefully see Crimson moving to the
Attic.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AP: Status report for the Apache XML Graphics Project

General Comments
================

There are no issues that require Board attention. Developer
activity has gone down which can become a real concern at some
point since patches are not processed in a timely manner
anymore. No releases were cut in the last three months and none
can be expected in the immediate future due to low activity.

XML Graphics Commons
====================

No major changes, just a few improvements and fixes in various
components, mainly PostScript production.

Batik
=====

There have been practically no changes on the codebase in the
last three months. User list activity has gone down a bit but
questions are mostly getting answers.

Fop
===

No major changes, just a few improvements and fixes in various
components. User list activity has just a bit lower than last
quarter. No big changes there.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the May 19, 2010 board meeting.
