
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             21 August 2002


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700.  A sufficient attendance
    to constitute a quorum was recognized by the chairman at 10:08am.  The
    meeting was held by teleconference hosted by Jim Jagielski (Covalent):

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present at Roll Call:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Greg Stein
        Randy Terbush

    Directors Absent:
        Sam Ruby

    Guests:
        None

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 17 July 2002

    By general consent, the board minutes detailed in
    board_minutes_2002_07_17.txt were approved.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President [Brian]
       Brian reported that he is investigating options to reduce the
       bandwidth requirements of the ASF web sites.  At present, we are
       reaching around 4 million hits per day.  Brian is also concerned about
       and working the disk storage issues mentioned at the last board
       meeting.  Brian noted that mirroring would be a help to alleviate
       some of the problems, but not all of them.

    B. Treasurer [Randy]
       Randy reported that he was in the process of ordering 'Quickbooks'
       to provide better access to ASF fiscal records.  Randy also noted
       that the ASF received a $1000(US) Usenix award check.  Randy
       also reported that there were 2 outgoing payments: $775(US) for
       ASF taxes and $250 to CSC for our annual corporate fee.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that he has received via postal mail a personal
       donation check, which will be forwarded to Randy.  Jim also reported
       that as of the meeting, he had not received the signed JSP agreement
       from Jason Hunter.  Jim and Roy will follow-up with Jason.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that the planning and organization for ApacheCon 2002
       is slowly progressing.  This resulted in a discussion regarding the
       performance of Security Travel and possible future directions.  Ken
       also reported that the conference committee was investigating
       possible "cross-pollination" between ApacheCon and COMDEX.
    
    B. Fund-raising [Randy]
       Randy had nothing to report, other than nothing really had been done
       on this effort as of this meeting.
    
 6. Special Orders

    A. Request for use of feather mark from Bradford Learning / Covalent

       Brian Beck (Bradford Learning) and Jim Harter (Covalent) are
       seeking permission to use the Apache feather logo for Web-based
       training courses on Apache 2.0. The logo appears in similar fashion
       and location in each module throughout the course. Bradford Learning
       and Covalent Systems are co-developers of this course. The usage is
       in a Flash graphic, with http://www.bradfordlearning.com/wts/
       being a typical example (use the pre-filled login).
       
       By unanimous vote, this request was approved.  Dirk volunteered
       to be the contact point for this request.  It was suggested that
       Dirk inquire on the feasibility of Bradford Learning actually
       donating the graphic to the ASF.

 7. Unfinished Business

    A. Election of Officers

       1) Chairman

          nominees: Roy Fielding, Greg Stein
          By majority vote, Greg Stein was elected as Chairmain.

       2) President

          nominees: Brian Behlendorf, Dirk-Willem van Gulik
          By majority vote, Dirk-Willem van Gulik was elected as President.

       3) Treasurer

          nominees: Ken Coar, Randy Terbush
          By majority vote, Randy Terbush was (re)elected as Treasurer.

       4) Exec. V.P. and Secretary

          nominees: Jim Jagielski
          By unanimous vote, Jim Jagielski was (re)elected as Exec. V.P./
          Secretary

        Therefore, the new officers for the ASF consist of:
          Greg Stein: Chairman
          Dirk-Willem van Gulik: President
          Randy Terbush: Treasurer
          Jim Jagielski: Exec. V.P./Secretary

        Randy volunteered to investigate the procedure required to provide
        the new officers with signatory authority on the ASF bank account.
        Jim volunteered to investigate the procedure required to inform
        CSC of the change in officers.
        
    B) STV instead of FPP for members meeting votes

       Executive summary: each voter lists all the people they want to see
       elected in order of preference. Excess votes for people who have
       already reached their quota (i.e. enough votes to ensure election)
       and also for the candidate with the least votes are redistributed
       to lower-numbered choices. Process is repeated until the required
       number are elected. See:

            http://www.electoral-reform.org.uk/votingsystems/stvi.htm

       There was much discussion over the relative "fairness" of STV over
       FPP, and whether such a chance would require approval from the
       members as well as a change in the bylaws.  It was pointed out that
       the present voting scheme could be interpreted as not completely
       within the scope of the bylaws itself.  The general consensus was that
       STV was most likely the correct scheme to be used and the board
       voted unanimously to proceed with the use of STV.  Ben Laurie
       volunteered to further investigate the impact of switching to STV.

    C) PeerMetrics proposal for a project based on Rabbit (P2P)

       Message-Id: <20020528165522.F18518@Lithium.MeepZor.Com>
       forwarded from May 22, "Tim Motika" <tim@peermetrics.com>

       Ken volunteered to provide further information regarding this
       business as required, as well as follow-up on the proposal.

 8. New Business

       Brian proposed that the board to approve a budget for the purchase
       of a disk array to increase capacity for the collabnet-hosted
       apache.org machines.  The purpose would be to provide additional
       storage and to serve as a backup solution as an alternative to a
       tape drive solution.  The board voted unanimously to approve a budget,
       not to exceed $8000, for such a purchase.

 9. Announcements
    There were no announcements.

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30am PDT -0700, the meeting actually adjorned
    at 11:25am.

__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 21 Aug 2002 board meeting.
