
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                              07 July 2002


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700 and began at
    10:18am, when a quorum was recognized by the chairman.  The meeting
    was held by teleconference hosted by Jim Jagielski (Covalent):

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present at Roll Call:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Randy Terbush

    Directors Present post-Roll Call:
        Sam Ruby (10:27am)

    Directors Absent:
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Ben Laurie
        Greg Stein

    Guests:
        None

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 20 March 2002

    By General Consent, the Board Minutes detailed in
    board_minutes_2002_03_20.txt were approved.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Roy]

       Roy noted that the Annual Meeting of the ASF Membership was held
       on May 21, 2002 via irc.  Details of the meeting can be found in
       the 'foundation' CVS tree under Meetings/20020521.
       
       Roy noted that he was not aware of any litigation against the
       ASF.

    B. President [Brian]

       Brian reported on the move of the ASF servers between AboveNet
       Data Centers.  The move was quite smooth, with minimal downtime
       and impact (other than IP address changes).  Brian reported that
       disk storage capacity was starting to be an initial concern, and
       that he was investigating storage options.

    C. Treasurer [Randy]

       Randy provided the end-of-year TAX information for the foundation.
       Randy noted that the ASF's 501(c)3 status was nominal, but that
       the ASF was not receiving enough donations for the status to be
       clearly appropriate.  IRS guidelines are that 30% of donations
       should be of the "small" variety.  How to address this concern
       was discussed including making it easier to individuals to
       donate to the ASF (eg: PayPal).  Scanned JPGs of the letter
       from the accountants to Randy regarding the ASF "Exempt
       Organization" IRS Return is located in:

           foundation:/Funds/tax-prep-p1.JPG
           foundation:/Funds/tax-prep-p2.JPG

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim reported that he had received the annual invoice from CSC for
       the ASF corporate standing, which he was forwarding to Randy for
       payment.  Jim also reported that the voting procedure in use during
       the Annual Members Meeting worked very well and eased the record
       and voting keeping efforts.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that the planning and organizing of ApacheCon 2002
       is progressing, with the selection of Tutorials and Sessions
       complete.  Ken reported that Lars, BenL and Rasmus were at
       Blackhat promoting AC 2002.  IBM and Apple have signed up as
       the main sponsors for the event (Apple providing the connectivity,
       wireless and some desktop sytems at a kiosk).  The Hackathon is
       scheduled for November 17th and 18th.
    
 6. Special Orders

    A. Election of Officers

       This was tabled for a later date, either on-list or at the
       next meeting.

    B) Apache DB project

       Jason van Zyl proposed creation of a db.apache.org project to house
       various software projects related to database access.

       The following resolution (R1) was proposed:

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of open-source software related to database
          access, for distribution at no charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
          Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache DB PMC", be and
          hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the Apache DB PMC be and hereby is responsible
          for the creation and maintenance of software related to database
          access, based on software licensed to the Foundation; and be it
          further

          RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache DB" be and
          hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at the
          direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
          Apache DB PMC, and to have primary responsibility for management
          of the projects within the scope of responsibility of the
          Apache DB PMC; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby
          are appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache DB PMC:

              John McNally
              Geir Magnusson Jr.
              Thomas Mahler
              Jason van Zyl (chair)
              Rodney Waldoff

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Jason van Zyl be and
          hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache DB,
          to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
          Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
          resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a
          successor is appointed; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the initial Apache DB PMC be and hereby is tasked
          with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage open
          development and increased participation in the Apache DB Project.

       By a vote of 6 For and 0 (none) Against, the proposal R1 was Approved.
       
    C) Fund-raising project

       The following resolution (R2) was proposed:

            WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish an ASF Board Committee charged with raising
          funds to sustain the operation of the Foundation and assist the
          creation and maintenance of open-source software for distribution
          at no charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that as ASF Board
          Committee, to be known as the "Apache Fund-raising Committee",
          be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the Apache Fund-raising Committee be and hereby is
          responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to raise
          funds on behalf of The Apache Software Foundation, including
          trademark licensing and other issues regarding fund-raising,
          but excluding the ApacheCon conferences (which shall remain a
          responsibility of the Apache Conference Planning Committee);
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the person holding the office of Treasurer
          shall serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as the
          chair of the Apache Fund-raising Committee and have primary
          responsibility for management of the projects within the scope
          of responsibility of the Apache Fund-raising Committee; and be it
          further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby
          are appointed to serve as the initial members of the Apache
          Fund-raising Committee:

              Ken Coar
              Roy T. Fielding
              Jim Jagielski
              Randy Terbush (chair)


       By a vote of 6 For and 0 (none) Against, the proposal R2 was Approved.

    D) Schedule for regular meetings

       Currently the 3rd Wed of every month at 10am Pacific time, continuing
       this schedule was tentatively approved with the understanding that the
       board will revisit the schedule if it becomes an unreasonable conflict
       for any of the directors.

    E) STV instead of FPP for members meeting votes

       This was tabled due to BenL's absence at the meeting.

    F) PeerMetrics proposal for a project based on Rabbit (P2P)

       Message-Id: <20020528165522.F18518@Lithium.MeepZor.Com>
       forwarded from May 22, "Tim Motika" <tim@peermetrics.com>
       
       This item will be further investigated and responded to.

 7. Unfinished Business
 
    None.

 8. New Business
 
    None.

 9. Announcements
 
    None.

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30am PDT -0800. Actual adjournment was
    at 11:27am.


__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 17 Jul 2002 board meeting.
