
                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

			    March 16, 2011


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am (Pacific) and began at 10:04
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized
    by the chairman.  The meeting was held via teleconference, hosted
    by Jim Jagielski and vmWare.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Shane Curcuru
        Doug Cutting
        Bertrand Delacretaz joined at 10:22
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson, Jr.
        Noirin Shirley
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent:

        Sam Ruby

    Officers Present:

        Craig L Russell

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of 16 February 2011

       Minutes were approved by general consent.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Doug]

       Little has happened at the board level since our last meeting
       outside of the normal business of the foundation.

    B. President [Jim]

       The formal budget call was sent out a few weeks ago, after having
       pinged each associated committee "one-on-one." The deadline for
       people to submit their budgets for 2011-2012 is March 21. My plan
       is to scrub the numbers with the cmmts, give the board a "head's
       up" assessment via email and have a proposal for board approval by
       next meeting.

       I will be presenting at POSSCON 2011 next week; in addition to a
       technical talk, I will be on a panel discussion with Bob Sutor,
       Iain Sanderson and Walter Bender regarding the "future" of Open
       Source as well as a keynote regarding "lessons learned" in Open
       Source.

       I am very happy that the CFP for ApacheCon NA 2011 went out almost
       on time. Thx to all, especially to Sally for pushing this along.

       Our EA has been helping with TAC, Concom and PR. We are planning
       a f2f meeting for later on this month with Sally; expected date is
       the 29th. I also have Melissa working on a foundation-wide calendar
       (hardcopy at present) and hope to work with Geir in getting her
       access to our accounts.

       Welcome to our newly elected members from January's members meeting:
 
         Greg Brown            Michael Busch          Jack Cai
         Adriano Crestani      Paul Joseph Davis      Jean-Sebastien Delfino
         Ted Dunning           Mohammad Nour El-Din   Julian Foad
         Igor Galic            Alan Gates             Oliver Heger
         Colm O Heigeartaigh   Arnaud Heritier        Jeremy Hughes
         Patrick Hunt          Nandika Jayawardana    Willem Ning Jiang
         Supun Kamburugamuva   Yegor Kozlov           Ken Krugler
         Damitha Kumarage      Olivier Lamy           Paul Lindner
         Ruwan Linton          Jimmy Lv               Rick McGuire
         Mark Miller           Julien Nioche          Johan Oskarsson
         Gerhard Petracek      Jörg Schaible          Theo Schlossnagle
         Zoe Slattery          Stefan Sperling        Ulrich Stärk
         Amila Suriarachchi    Tommaso Teofili        Tammo van Lessen
         Gert Vanthienen       Igor Vaynberg          Kanchana Welagedara

       A relatively quiet and smoothly running month.

    C. Treasurer [Geir]

      Books are up to date.   Current balances are total cash of 
      $724,133.57 at Wells Fargo and $36,892.21 at PayPal.

      In terms of lockbox, we received :

       contribution checks  :
          - AOL
          - Environmental Defense
          - MSFT Matching Gifts Program

       sponsorship program checks :
          - FaceBook

      In Progress:
        - ASF monthly expense data
        - find the $20 discrepancy in checking

   Statement of Financial Income and Expense - February 2011

        Ordinary Income/Expense
           Income
              Interest Income                                          76.85 
              Contributions Income
                Unrestricted                                 27,205.14 
              Total Contributions Income                           27,205.14

           Total Income                                            27,281.99

           Expense
              Bank Service Charges                                    430.47
              Contract Labor                                        4,616.00 
              Licenses and Permits                                    363.00
              Postage and Delivery                                     19.95
              Program Expenses
                Infrastructure
                   Colocation Expenses                   518.00
                   Hardware Purchases                 15,679.00
                   Infrastructure Staff                    0.00
                Total Infrastructure                         16,197.00

                Travel Assistance                             1,523.15
                Public Relations
                   PRC Travel                          4,990.77
                Total Public Relations                        4,990.77

              Total Program Expenses                               22,710.92

              Taxes                                                 1,252.43
              Travel & Ent
                Lodging                                         524.18
              Total Travel & Ent                                      524.18

           Total Expense                                           29,916.95

        Net Ordinary Income                                        -2,634.96

     Net Income                                                    -2,634.96


  Statement of Financial Position - As of Feb 28, 2011

                                                    Feb 28, 11     Feb 28, 10     $ Change      % Change

     ASSETS
        Current Assets
           Checking/Savings
             Other Expenses                              587.38         222.48        364.90        164.0%
             Other Income                             -4,464.12        -410.66     -4,053.46       -987.1%
             PayPal                                   30,159.58      19,108.33     11,051.25         57.8%
             Wells Fargo Analyzed Account            321,159.85     200,779.19    120,380.66         60.0%
             Wells Fargo Savings                     286,278.82     285,169.98      1,108.84          0.4%
           Total Checking/Savings                    633,721.51     504,869.32    128,852.19         25.5%

           Accounts Receivable
             Accounts Receivable                     175,600.00      90,000.00     85,600.00         95.1%
           Total Accounts Receivable                 175,600.00      90,000.00     85,600.00         95.1%

        Total Current Assets                         809,321.51     594,869.32    214,452.19         36.1%

     TOTAL ASSETS                                    809,321.51     594,869.32    214,452.19         36.1%

     LIABILITIES & EQUITY
        Liabilities
           Current Liabilities
             Credit Cards
                ASF Credit Card - Philip Golucci           0.00       1,191.96     -1,191.96       -100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Paul Querna             16.45           0.00         16.45        100.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Ruby                    39.90          39.90          0.00          0.0%
                ASF Credit Card - Erenkrantz             -50.00         198.45       -248.45       -125.2%
             Total Credit Cards                            6.35       1,430.31     -1,423.96        -99.6%

           Total Current Liabilities                       6.35       1,430.31     -1,423.96        -99.6%

        Total Liabilities                                  6.35       1,430.31     -1,423.96        -99.6%

        Equity
           Retained Earnings                         626,337.08     363,648.74    262,688.34         72.2%
           Net Income                                182,978.08     229,790.27    -46,812.19        -20.4%
        Total Equity                                 809,315.16     593,439.01    215,876.15         36.4%

     TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      809,321.51     594,869.32    214,452.19         36.1%



    D. Secretary [Craig]

       Documents continue to be filed timely, thanks to the continuous
       improvement of the Secretary Assistant Tool and both sets of
       eyes on the incoming documents. In February, 39 ICLAs, three
       CCLAs, three Grants, three Membership Applications, and one
       Nondisclosure were filed. One Mystery fax containing an
       unrecognizable ICLA was received.

    E. Executive Vice President [Noirin]

       Nothing to report.

    F. Vice Chairman [Greg]

       I have been working with Serge, Sally, and Geir to finalize a
       couple of our Platinum Sponsors. Otherwise, all is quiet...

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of JCP [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment 1

       No written report was submitted, but a brief oral report was given.
       There was one request for a TCK.

    B. VP of Brand Management [Shane Curcuru]

       See Attachment 2

    C. VP of Fundraising [Serge Knystautas / Greg]

       See Attachment 3

    D. VP of Marketing and Publicity [Sally Khudairi / Geir]

       See Attachment 4

    E. VP of W3C Relations [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 5

    F. Apache Legal Affairs Committee [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 6

    G. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Shane]

       See Attachment 7

    H. Apache Conference Planning Project [Noirin Shirley]

       See Attachment 8

    I. Apache Infrastructure Team [Philip Gollucci / Jim]

       See Attachment 9

    J. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Gavin McDonald / Doug]

       See Attachment 10

    Executive Officer reports were accepted by general consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Jeff Trawick / Jim]

       See Attachment A

    B. Apache Archiva Project [Maria Odea Ching / Roy]

       See Attachment B

    C. Apache Aries Project [Jeremy Hughes / Sam]

       See Attachment C

    D. Apache Axis Project [Andreas Veithen / Noirin]

       See Attachment D

    E. Apache Camel Project [Hadrian Zbarcea / Bertrand]

       See Attachment E

    F. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Doug]

       See Attachment F

    G. Apache Chemistry Project [Florian Müller / Geir]

       See Attachment G

    H. Apache Commons Project [Phil Steitz / Noirin]

       See Attachment H

    I. Apache ESME Project [Richard Hirsch / Jim]

       See Attachment I

    J. Apache Felix Project [Richard Hall / Roy]

       See Attachment J

         Greg: My recommendation is that if a tarball is released for
               evaluation under a specific release version, then burn
               the number if it goes wrong. Otherwise, you will always
               question "did you get the right x.y.z tarball? was that
               the early-eval tarball?" Version numbers are CHEAP. The
               RM can recreate a tarball for a specific version as
               often as needed, but once it is made available: burn
               the number if needed. Please consider joining the
               release managers mailing list.  release-discuss@

    K. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Greg]

       See Attachment K

    L. Apache Harmony Project [Tim Ellison / Shane]

       See Attachment L

    M. Apache Hive Project [Namit Jain / Sam]

       See Attachment M

      No report was received.

      Action item Doug: follow up with PMC.

    N. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Bertrand]

       See Attachment N

    O. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Jukka Zitting / Noirin]

       See Attachment O

    P. Apache Karaf Project [Guillaume Nodet / Shane]

       See Attachment P

    Q. Apache Labs Project [Bernd Fondermann / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

    R. Apache Lucene Project [Grant Ingersoll / Doug]

       See Attachment R

    S. Apache OFBiz Project [Jacopo Cappellato / Geir]

       See Attachment S

    T. Apache OODT Project [Chris A. Mattmann / Jim]

       See Attachment T

    U. Apache OpenWebBeans Project [Gurkan Erdogdu / Roy]

       See Attachment U

    V. Apache Pig Project [Olga Natkovich / Bertrand]

       See Attachment V

    W. Apache Pivot Project [Todd Volkert / Greg]

       See Attachment W

    X. Apache Portals Project [David Sean Taylor / Bertrand]

       See Attachment X

    Y. Apache River Project [Tom Hobbs / Shane]

       See Attachment Y

    Z. Apache ServiceMix Project [Chris Custine / Greg]

       See Attachment Z

    AA. Apache Shiro Project [Les Hazlewood / Noirin]

       See Attachment AA

    AB. Apache Sling Project [Felix Meschberger / Sam]

       See Attachment AB

    AC. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daryl C. W. O'Shea / Geir]

       See Attachment AC

    AD. Apache Synapse Project [Paul Fremantle / Roy]

       See Attachment AD

    AE. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Jim]

       See Attachment AE

       No report was received.

    AF. Apache Tomcat Project [Mladen Turk / Doug]

       See Attachment AF

       Shane: Many thanks for excellent branding coverage.

    AG. Apache UIMA Project [Marshall Schor / Greg]

       See Attachment AG

       Noirin: Congrats on the Jeopardy win!

    AH. Apache Wicket Project [Martijn Dashorst / Jim]

       See Attachment AH

    AI. Apache Xalan Project [David Bertoni / Doug]

       See Attachment AI

       No report was received. This project appears to be dormant and
       no response after several missed reports.

       Action item Doug: warn the PMC that failure to report is an indication
       of serious viability issues with the project, and that the Attic might
       be an appropriate destination for the project.

    AJ. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Roy]

       See Attachment AJ

    AK. Apache ZooKeeper Project [Patrick Hunt / Shane]

       See Attachment AK

    Committee reports received were approved by general consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Change the Apache MyFaces Project Chair

        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Matthias
        Wessendorf to the office of Vice President, Apache MyFaces, and

        WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
        resignation of Matthias from the office of Vice
        President, Apache MyFaces, and

        WHEREAS, the Project Management Committee of the Apache
        MyFaces project has chosen by vote to recommend Gerhard Petracek
        as the successor to the post;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Matthias Wessendorf is
        relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of
        the office of Vice President, Apache MyFaces, and

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Gerhard Petracek be and hereby is
        appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache MyFaces, to
        serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
        Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
        death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
        until a successor is appointed.

    Approved by unanimous roll call vote.

    B. Termination of the Xalan PMC

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it no longer in the best
       interest of the Foundation to continue the Apache Xalan project
       due to inactivity

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache Xalan project
       is hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Attic PMC be and hereby is tasked with
       oversight over the software developed by the Apache Xalan
       Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Xalan" is
       hereby terminated; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Xalan PMC is hereby terminated.

    Tabled pending resolution of Doug's action item.

 8. Discussion Items

    A. Trademark protection strategies (executive session @ end of meeting)

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    * Sam: find out what's going on with Bluesky
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: discuss release policy with Lab folks
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: follow up with Synapse re no releases since 2008
              Status: Obsolete. 2.0.0 was released Nov 2010.

    * Greg: follow up with HBase to clarify the "developer release" term.
              Status: not started

    * Doug: Suggest to Noel that JSPWiki needs a nudge.
              Status: Not started.

    * Greg: Find out whether Shindig can use internal Hudson.
              Status: Obsolete. They're using Apache's Hudson service.

    * Jim: work with EA on a calendar (e.g. due dates for external reports)
           Status: In progress

    * Jim: arrange for a public announcement of new members
           Status: In progress

    * Jim: follow up with conference planning committee on missing report
        Status: Complete

    * Doug: follow up with Stdcxx project
              Status: Not started.

    * Shane: follow up with Cocoon branding
             Status: discussing with PMC

    * Shane: follow up with HISE on commercial deployments
             Status: no answer on private@

    * Shane: follow up with Maven letter for PMC review
             Status: in progress (written, reviewed, awaiting Jim meeting)

    * Philip: retire mod_perl 1.x: 
             Status: libapreq got no opposition, mp did, I'll sort it out yet.

    * Greg: follow up with Roller PMC chair to improve report
              Status: not started

    * Sam: move xalan to attic

    * Jim: move xml project to attic
           Status: Not done

    New action items opened during the meeting:

    Doug: follow up with Hive missing report
    Doug: follow up with Xalan missing multiple reports

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

    A. Today (March 16) is Greg's birthday! He'll be calling in from his
       bday vacation in Portugal :-)

13. Adjournment

    Regular meeting adjourned at 10:37am (Pacific)
    Executive session followed the regular meeting.

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of JCP


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of Brand Management

One board-level issue: Discussion item 8.A: Trademark protection strategies.

Operations And Community
========================

Published version 1.0 of Third Party Event Branding policy [1] after a vote 
on the concom@ list.  Concom has signed an MOU with a third party in the past 
codifying their specific use of our brand(s) within their event, so any MOUs 
should specify the version number of the policy being conformed to.

Worked with Concom on questions around Cloudera's Hadoop World, Yahoo!'s 
Hadoop Summit, and FuseSource's CamelOne events.

Projects report good status on implementing Branding Requirements, although 
a large number of projects are either pushing back or having difficulty 
adding the TM to primary project logos.

External Requests
=================

Prepared a letter addressing Sonatype's use of our Maven mark in various cases
and reviewed with Maven PMC.  At PMC's request, awaiting feedback from Jim on 
his meeting with the Sonatype CEO first. 

Reviewed and did not object to Cloudera's new Hadoop-related product
name, with some mixed consultation with the Hadoop PMC and counsel.

[1] http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/events.html


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Report from the VP of Fundraising

I was very busy this month and did not get much of anything done, but have a
few things to note.

HP's server equipment arrived at OSUOSL.  Some hard drives need to be
replaced and infra@ is taking care of setting them up and addressing any
issues.

We discussed and clarified the number of platinum sponsors in our program,
which is that there is no restriction and the sponsors at that level are
comfortable with this.

Helped coordinate a donation (not sponsorship) from AOL.

I still need to reach out to the fundraising list as indicated in last
month's report to get contacts with some bronze sponsors who are due to
renew.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Report from the VP of Marketing and Publicity

ASF MARKETING & PUBLICITY STATUS: MARCH 2011

N. Team: ASF executive assistant Melissa Warnkin will be dedicating
part of her time to support various activities within Marketing &
Publicity, and will meet face-to-face with Sally Khudairi and Jim
Jagielski on 29 March to begin this work.

I. Budget: Several expenditures will be charged against the M&P
budget, including HALO contract balance and reimbursements, as well
as clipping and database fees. Sally prepared a draft budget for
FY2011-2012 and will be reviewing it with Jim this week. The HALO
contract expires at the end of March, and Jim has agreed to extend
the contract until the end of the fiscal year, with the intention of
a new contract time period in alignment with that of the ASF fiscal
year.

II. Fundraising/Branding/Marketing liaison: Sally met with an ASF
sponsor regarding trademark and ConCom requirements for holding an
Apache technology event. Sally has also been working with Greg Stein
to connect with a sponsor regarding publicity at the platinum
sponsorship level.

III. Press Releases: we issued the following press release over the
PR NewsWire service:

- 14 February Apache Innovation Bolsters IBM's "Smartest Machine on
Earth" in First-ever Man vs. Machine Competition on Jeopardy! Quiz
Show 
- 23 February The Apache Software Foundation Announces Apache
Chemistry as a Top-Level Project

IV. Informal Announcements: the following announcements were
distributed to our dedicated press/analyst list (only; not PR
Newswire), as well as posted on the ASF blog and Twitter feed:

- 2 March Announcing the Apache Committers' Retreat + Community
BarCamp in Knockree, Ireland 
- 2 March Call for Participation for ApacheCon Now Open!

We encourage all PMCs to forward success stories and innovative uses
of Apache products for the "Did You Know?" Twitter campaign. Please
contact Sally at press-AT-apache-DOT-org for more information.

V. Media Relations: both the Apache Chemistry and UIMA announcements
garnered much press interest and excellent coverage. We continue to
brief select members of the media and analyst community under embargo
where-ever possible, and have received positive feedback overall.

VI. Analyst Relations: we received queries from RedMonk for a quote
from the Apache UIMA team for a report, as well as metrics for
downloads and project activity since the mid-February
Watson/Jeopardy! games.

VII. ApacheCon liaison: Sally and Jim will be acting as (interim?)
program chairs now that the CFP is open. Sally continues to work on
top-level marketing and conference publicity strategy: she developed
the marketing/PR program needed for the conference PR team (retained
by Charel Morris/SCP), and created the Website framework and copydeck
(site is now live, with thanks to assistance from the ASF Infra
team). As the conference leadership is still not in place, Sally
intends to continue overseeing the planning process with the overall
Planners team (first initiated early January).

VIII. (Non-ASF) Industry Events and Outreach liaison: Sally has been
in discussions with OSCON program chair Edd Dumbill regarding
formalizing the ASF's presence and participation at the new OSCON
Data and OSCON Java events (co-located with OSCON proper). Details
will be forwarded to ConCom once their proposal detailing our options
arrives.

- 23-24 March: Jim will be speaking at POSSCON in Columbia, South
Carolina. 
- 25-29 July: OSCON (+ OSCON Data/OSCON Java), Portland,
Oregon.

IX. PR Newswire account: we have purchased an additional set of 10
pre-paid press releases at the discounted, non-profit rate from
PRNewswire. We now have 11 press releases available through 3 March
2012.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Report from the VP of W3C Relations

Henry Story joined the Federated Social Web Incubator Group in support of
Apache Incubator Clerezza.

The W3C Patents and Standards Interest Group (PSIG) has yet to come to
consensus on a single replacement license.  Discussing such openly and with
the HTML WG prior to proceeding to an Advisory Council (AC) survey and then to
a Director's decision was at one time controversial, but this appears to be on
its way to being resolved.  A key part of resolving this was Larry's
willingness to join the HTML WG where he presented his preferred choice (known
as option 3).  Two other options have yet to be so presented.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Legal Affairs Committee

Continues to be quiet with no board level issues.

Resolved an issue which allows Derby to proceed with releasing an
implementation of JDBC 4.1.  Some progress has been made on coming to
consensus on releasing a product with optional dependencies, but it is
awaiting somebody to create a suitable patch.

Reviewed Subversion's discussions with WANDisco over trademark compliance.
In general, trademark discussions are trending down.

We continue to get the occasional random request for legal advice for projects
outside of the ASF.  Generally these requests are from individuals.  We
continue to decline to provide such advice.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

Apologies for missing report for Feb board, was due to a failed
commit.  Here it is: 

For January 2011: There continues to be a steady
stream of reports of various kinds arriving at security@.  These
continue to be dealt with by the security team.

5      Support question
2      Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
1      Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
5      Vulnerability reports of which:
       2      Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [mod_perl, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [tomcat, via security@tomcat.apache.org]

For February 2011: There continues to be a steady stream of reports of
various kinds arriving at security@.  These continue to be dealt with
by the security team.

3      Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
1      Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
5      Vulnerability reports of which:
       2      Vulnerability report [hadoop, via security@hadoop.apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [httpd, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [poi, via security@apache.org]
       1      Vulnerability report [struts, via security@struts.apache.org]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 8: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

The CFP for ApacheCon NA 2011 has opened. We have had volunteers to help with
ApacheCon, filling many of the previously-defined roles that the planning team
requires - unfortunately, without either the promised plan from the producer,
or clear visibility into what *is* happening, it's very difficult to translate
that volunteer energy into action.

Attempts to open a bid process for future ApacheCons have been unproductive.
This is due to lack of input from the committee as to what we want future
events to look like - without this input, it seems like a waste of time to ask
the EA for assistance in scoping out the actual process, formal requirements
etc.  The role for ConCom going forward seems uncertain, with few clear
opinions or volunteers.

Nick Burch is working to ensure archive copies of previous ApacheCon sites
are available and served from our infrastructure.

The draft Events Branding Policy has been voted on and ratified as official -
many thanks to Shane for pushing this through. We hope that this will make
things both clearer and fairer for third parties wanting to run events focused
on our projects.

The Hadoop World MOU has been updated to reflect these policies, and I expect
it to be signed by both parties in the next week or so. Many thanks to Karen
Sandler and Marc Miller for their assistance with the updates required.

Many thanks to the EA for assistance with the Retreat so far. TAC applications
have been received, and ticket sales have opened - with 18 tickets sold at time
of writing.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 9: Status report for the Apache Infrastructure Team

Upgraded ALL of our FreeBSD hosts to 8.2-RELEASE except for minotaur,
which is slated for replacement later this week.

Paul Davis was granted infra karma for his work on git hosting.

Reigned in the use of Jira accounts associated with mailing lists,
predominantly for security reasons.

Submitted a budget to the budget committee for 2011.

The long-awaited gear from HP has arrived at OSUOSL.  We are in the
process of having it racked and brought online in our new 3rd rack.
(Unfortunately some of the drives are incompatible with the hosts,
so we are awaiting additional gear from HP to resolve this).

Migrated user .forward files into ldap.  Ldap now is authoritative
for forwarding addresses.

Rationalized much of our vhost config for the tlp websites using
mod_vhost_alias.

Initiated a general cleanup request to tlp's with large /dist/ directories.

OSUOSL has upgraded our bandwidth cap to 50mbps inbound 100mbps outbound
(up from 10 and 50 resp).

Our expected (and paid for) arrays from Silicon Mechanics are delayed
3 weeks pending arrival of the requested Hitachi drives.

Upgraded our svn servers to deal with announced DoS vulnerability.

Spoke with one of our Dell reps about pricing inconsistencies in our new
service contract.  It should be resolved in the near future (in our favor).

Arranged for an updated quote from Technologent for service on our remaining
Sun gear.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 10: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

No changes to membership since last report.

The Knockree event is being  supported by TAC and applications are 
closed/complete and judging under way.
Judges have one or two queries relating to the question set and/or qualified 
answers of such, especially when it comes to the financial questions. 
As the questions were originally based on the larger ApacheCon events for 
a whole week, the smaller weekend 1/2/3 days events need adjustment to 
compensate. Discussions are ongoing.

We still have budget to get sorted, this is due about now and I expect 
to have our budget requirements submitted on time. Just waiting for some 
last minute information to flow though from the EA (who in turn is also 
waiting).

No other new events on the Horizon at this stage.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Releases
--------

There have been no releases of APR, APR-util, or APR-iconv in
the last quarter.  It has been nearly a year since the last 
release of the current stable branch of APR, and there are a 
number of bug fixes awaiting release.

In the last quarter's report, a release of APR was anticipated
by the end of December but that did not take place.  A new release
in the coming quarter will be important.

Community
---------

New PMC members: Stefan Fritsch

New committers:  none

There are no obvious candidates for committership at present, as
the typical contributor, other than current committers, has an 
issue or two of interest to them and then disappears.

Approximately 46 feature requests and 75 bug reports are open at
this time, about the same as last quarter.  About 11 of these were
reported in the last six months.

Mailing list activity has diminished significantly since last
quarter, primarily due to the lack of a release to discuss.  In
general, mailing list activity has been low.

Development
-----------

APR and APR-Util are in maintenance mode.  Only a few small
features have been added in the last year, and these have not been
released.  There is no consensus for releasing newer 1.x branches
(where some features have been added) or 2.0 (where some additional
features have been added, and some incompatible changes have been
made).

Issues
------

There are no board-level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Archiva Project

Below are the important events that happened in the project since the last
board report.

Releases
--------

* Archiva 1.3.3 released on Dec. 20, 2010. This release contains significant 
performance fixes and memory improvements to large or frequent scanning 
and indexing operations, as well as diagnostic tools for reviewing the 
current server performance.

* Archiva 1.3.4 released on Feb. 15, 2011. This release contains the
fix for the cross-site scripting vulnerability (CVE-2011-0533) that was 
reported.  

Community
---------

* Multiple CSRF vulnerability and XSS vulnerability issues have been
reported against Archiva 1.3.4. The fixes for these are already being worked 
on and a 1.3.5 release containing these fixes is scheduled as mitigation.

* New features and enhancements that were added to trunk needs to be 
reviewed and finalized before being released as Archiva 1.4. Some of these
are the support for staging repositories and the replacement of the Archiva 
database with a file-based metadata repository. 

Issues
------

No board level issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Aries Project

Aries delivers a set of pluggable Java components enabling an enterprise OSGi
application programming model.

New releases
------------
These bug fix releases have been completed since the last board report:

* Aries Application 0.2.1
* Aries Blueprint 0.2.1
* Aries Blueprint 0.3.1

Release by bundle
-----------------
After some significant investigation and discussion, we recently concluded a
vote to switch to a release-by-bundle scheme. This is to enable us to follow
the guidance set out in the OSGi Alliance Semantic Versioning white paper. 

Community update
----------------
Largely unchanged since last month dev@ 117 subscribers, user@ 129
subscribers. The dev@ list continues to be active with less traffic on the
user@ list. No new committers or PMC members.

There are no board level issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Axis Project

Releases this quarter:
* Axis2/Java 1.5.4 (December; RM: Andreas Veithen)
* Sandesha2/Java 1.4 (December; RM: Andreas Veithen)
* Rampart/Java 1.5.1 (January; RM: Selvaratnam Uthaiyashankar)

For these releases, the Sandesha2 and Rampart builds were updated to
use the Nexus staging process and to adhere to the latest ASF release
requirements.

Status of the TLP migration:
* We now have a real home page. Kudos to Chanaka Jayasena for working on this.
* For the 1.4 release, the Sandesha2/Java site has been overhauled and
is now fully migrated to the Axis TLP.
* Some subprojects still use or refer to resources of the Web Services
project. To be addressed during next quarter.

Community is healthy. During this quarter, WSO2 organized three hackathons:
* December 21-22, focusing on Axis2/Java and Rampart.
* January 4-6, focusing on blockers and high priority issues for Axis2/Java.
* January 18, 20 and 21, focusing on fixing JAX-WS issues in Axis2.

The Apache project branding requirements have been implemented for all
sub projects that have seen a release during this quarter (except for
the "TM" in the project logos).

New committers:
* Thilina Mahesh Buddhika
* Eranga Jayasundera


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Camel Project

Apache Camel is a powerful open source integration framework 
based on known Enterprise Integration Patterns.

Community:
 * No issues that require the board attention.
 * The community continues to grow and submit contributions.
 * Mailing lists continue to be very active.
 * 2 new committers joined the project: rickette, tjsnell
 * Fusesource planned and announced a CamelOne conference in May
   The Camel PMC contacted Fusesource and Rob Davies, Camel PMC 
   member and Fusesource manager, ensured us that the CamelOne 
   event sponsored by FuseSource will meet the ASF trademark
   guidelines as defined by the current draft posted online.

Development:
 * Development continues with new features and fixes on trunk
 * A Camel 2.7.0 release is planned for this month.

Releases:
 * Camel 2.6.0 released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project

Development

* Released the second milestone of Cayenne 3.1 (3.1M2) on March 8, 2011. 
3.1 is a brand new release that features built-in DI container, singleton 
free runtime and a number of other productive features. Milestone 2 
includes stability improvements, numerous bugfixes in the runtime and in 
Cayenne Modeler, new object lifecycle management features (using annotations 
for listeners), plus data channel filtering. Current 3.1 feature guide can 
be found at: http://cayenne.apache.org/doc/guide-to-31-features.html.

* Work on 3.0.2 (STABLE) and 3.1 (UNSTABLE) releases continues.

Web site

Highlighting unfinished items from Branding Requirements 
(per http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs )

* Website Navigation Links: navbar links included, link to www.apache.org 
included. (Needs work. Consider how to rearrange navigation to avoid 
confusion between links which leave the Cayenne site and those which don't.)
* Logos and Graphics: include TM, use consistent product logo on your site
(OK, other than 'tm' symbols)

Community

* Mailing list activity is normal.
* Christian Grobmeier on the developer mailing list expressed interest in 
writing one or more technical articles about Cayenne and was looking for 
suggestions as to what we felt was relevant and appropriate. We look 
forward to answering his questions in the future regarding this.
* There was an effort to stop supporting Java 1.5 for Cayenne 3.1, but 
due to community feedback we have decided to continue to support Java 1.5.
* Ksenia Khailenko has begun blogging about Cayenne 
(http://cayenneinpractice.blogspot.com/).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Chemistry Project

Apache Chemistry is an effort to provide an implementation of the CMIS 
(Content Management Interoperability Services) specification in Java, 
Python, PHP, and .NET (and possibly other languages).
The project has graduated in February 2011.

== Project status ==

The team has completed most of the graduation tasks within the last 
weeks. The last open topic is a TLP release of the OpenCMIS sub-project.
A new sub-project, DotCMIS, has been added in January. It provides a 
CMIS client library for .NET.
On 23 February 2011, the Apache Press Team announced the graduation of 
Apache Chemistry. (Thanks to the team and Sally in particular!) It 
generated a nice press coverage.

== Community ==

There have been no changes within the last four weeks. The traffic on 
the dev list is steady.

== Infrastructure ==

The mailing lists, SVN and the project website have been moved from the 
incubator to the TLP infrastructure. We have used this opportunity to 
move from Confluence to Apache CMS and to check the branding requirements.

== Releases ==

cmislib 0.4.1 (Python) and DotCMIS 0.1 (.NET) have been released since 
the graduation. The team is currently preparing an OpenCMIS 0.3 (Java) 
release. The PHP sub-project still lacks a first release and is moving 
slowly.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Commons Project

General
=======
 Continued healthy activity across multiple components and
 responsiveness on both dev and user lists.

 Work to bring Commons web pages into compliance with ASF 
 branding guidelines is nearing completion, as we complete the
 release in progress of Commons Skin, the Maven site resources
 shared by all Commons components.

 We are also in process of finalizing our approach to Commons-specific
 trademarks and logos.  Discussion on commons-dev in consultation
 with trademarks@ will close the loop on this topic.

 The Commons PMC has agreed to sponsor incubation of OGNL, a Java
 development framework for Object-Graph Navigation Language, plus other
 extras such as list projection and selection and lambda expressions.
 We are seeking mentors for this podling in the Incubator.
 Volunteers welcome!

 Two new Sandbox components have been started this quarter:
 * BSP: A general-purpose implementation of BSP trees suitable for
   geometry modeling in low dimensions, either in Euclidean space or on
   unit sphere topologies.
 * Digester3: Redesign of Commons Digester.

 Apache Commons Math has been selected by CNES (French space agency) for
 its next generation space flight dynamics systems.

 There are no issues requiring Board attention at this time.

Releases
========
 Commons Math 2.2
 Commons Parent POM V18
 Commons Lang 2.6
 Commons Daemon 1.0.5
 Commons IO 2.0.1

Community
=========
 * Damjan Jovanovic has been voted in an accepted the invitation to
   join us as a Commons committer
 * Simone Tripodi, Christian Grobmeier, Charles Matthew Chen have been
   voted in and accepted the invitation to join the Commons PMC
 * Martin Cooper asked to be moved to Emeritus status on the Commons PMC


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache ESME Project

Apache ESME's mission: Enterprise Social Messaging Environment (ESME) is a
secure and highly scalable microsharing and micromessaging platform that
allows people to discover and meet one another and get controlled access
to other sources of information, all in a business process context.


Releases:
2011-03-14 1.2 
2010-10-09 1.1 (Incubator - last release)

Development:
We are starting work on our 1.3 release.

Community:
New committer and new PMC member - Vladimir Ivanov

Issues:
No Board level issues at this time


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Felix Project

Community 
* No significant community activity other than the normal
  participation in mailing lists and bug reporting.

Software
* Recent subproject releases: 
  * EventAdmin (1.2.10)
  * File Install (3.1.2, 3.1.4, 3.1.6, 3.1.10) 
  * Framework and Main launcher (3.0.7, 3.0.8, 3.0.9)
  * Framework Security (1.4.1)
  * Gogo Command, Runtime, and Shell (0.8.0)
  * Http Service (2.2.0)
  * iPOJO Core, Annotations, Manipulator, Composite, Maven Plugin,
    and Ant task (1.8.0)
  * iPOJO Web Console Plugin (1.6.0)
  * Maven Bundle Plugin (2.2.0, 2.3.4) 
  * Web Console (3.1.8)

Project Branding
* Project Website Basics: done
* Website Navigation Links: done
* Trademark Attributions: done
* Logos and Graphics: open
  * TM missing from all Logos
* Project Metadata: done

Licensing and other issues 
* Discussed the proper way to handle version numbers for canceled release
  votes (e.g., canceling a release vote to fix an issue). The community was
  split between allowing the version number to be reused on the subsequent
  release versus disallowing it. Since there was no consensus, we decided
  to not enforce a policy and simply let the person performing the release
  decide.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Apache Gump is a cross-project continuous integration server.  It is
different from "usual" CI servers in that it expects the individual
project builds to succeed; its purpose is to check the integration of
a project with the latest code rather than a fixed version of the
project's dependencies.  If you want a more traditional nightly build
server, Gump is not for you.  Use Gump if you want to know when a
change in your dependencies breaks your project or when your changes
break other projects.

Gump's intention isn't so much to be a CI server but rather a vehicle
that makes people look beyond their project's boundaries and helps the
projects to collaborate.

Gump is written in Python and supports several build tools and version
control systems.  The Apache installation of Gump builds many ASF
projects and their dependencies.  It started in the Java part of the
foundation but also builds projects like APR, HTTPd and log4net.

== Summary ==

Low development activity to adapt to a difference between mvn 2.x and
3.x, the Mac OS X machine went live, no issues.

== Issues ==

There are no Board level issues.

== Community ==

The Gump project really consists of two parts, the code base for the
project and the ASF installations[1] running this code base to build
many ASF projects as well as some related projects.

The code base mostly does what its current users need so there isn't
much development going on at all.  No new committers have been added.

All ASF committers have write access to the metadata that configure
the ASF installations.  There are a few people contributing across all
projects and a few additional people maintaining the metadata of the
projects they are interested in the most.

No changes to the PMC.

Support requests for the non-public Gump installation running on top
of OpenJDK7 dribble in and get addressed.

== Development ==

Only minor changes that lead to separate "install" builders for mvn2
and mvn3.

== Releases ==

The ASF installations of Gump work on the latest code base almost all
of the time.  The project is in a state of a perpetual beta.  There
have been no releases.

== Infrastructure ==

The Mac OS X instance called Adam is now running the full set of
projects.

The infra team has provided us with a VM to run Gump on top of Apache
Harmony but it is currently not used.  We expect to either start using
it or give it back during the next quarter.

== Project Branding Requirements ==

Logos still need a "TM" symbol, waiting for somebody with the skills
required to make the change.  Unfortunately the Gump community doesn't
seem to include a person with said skills.

The website now uses Forrest 0.9 which allowed us to remove our own
custom skin that was only added in order to enable the trademark
footer.

== Statistics ==

As of Thu, 10 Mar 2011 the ASF installations check out a bit less than
180 source trees (113 from the ASF repository) and try to build a bit
less than 800 "projects".  A complete Gump run takes about nine hours
on vmgump or the FreeBSD jail and a bit less than seven hours on the
MacOS X server where more projects fail to build and thus less time is
spent building dependent projects.

The time taken on vmgump has almost halved when compared to last
quarter mostly due to migrating to a new virtual host; it is now back
where it used to be half a year ago.  The time for the FreeBSD jail
remains more or less the same.

[1] the main instance at http://vmgump.apache.org/gump/public/ , a
    FreeBSD jail at http://gump.zones.apache.org/gump/public/ and a
    Mac OS X Server at http://adam.apache.org/gump/


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project

Board level issues:

The Apache Harmony development community has seen a significant
reduction in capacity over the last few months, and as a consequence
there is no longer an active Harmony PMC quorum to oversee the actions
of the project.  The current Chair has stated an intention to step down.

Code:

As written in the previous report, the majority of developers were
working on Apache Harmony code with a view to achieving a fully
compliant and compatible implementation of the Java SE specifications.

The recognition that Harmony will never receive an acceptable Java SE
JCK license, and the withdrawal of a number of corporate sponsored
developers has had a negative impact on the project's development
progress.  The rate of commits and bug fixes has fallen to near zero as
the community seeks to re-form around a new project objective.

Community:

There remains a few developers who are posting to the list, and there
may be interest in rebooting the goals of the project.  There is an
acknowledgement that Harmony manages significant and interesting runtime
technology.  Developer discussions are exploring a variety of options,
including defining an alternative runtime.

We therefore feel that moving to the Attic is premature, however, we
recognize that maintaining PMC oversight and responsibility for the project
is important.

There has been some discussion about maintaining the Harmony project
identity, but asking that the Incubator PMC provide a level of mentoring
and oversight not currently possible with the reduced Harmony PMC.
A call within the current project PMC to find a replacement Chair has
gone unanswered.

Plans:

We shall continue to support the developer discussions around the
roadmap for Harmony, and seek to find volunteers to provide a PMC and
Chair structure from amongst experienced Apache participants.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Hive Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Nigel Daly, Tommaso Teofili, and Alan Gates have joined the PMC since the
last report.

Howl -- a table and storage management service for data created using Apache
Hadoop -- has been accepted for Incubation.  It will be renamed first, given
that there is an ObjectWeb project also called HOWL.

MRUnit -- a library to support unit testing of Hadoop MapReduce jobs -- has
been accepted for Incubation.

Rave -- a web And social Mashup Engine -- has been accepted for Incubation.

BeanValidation failed to report this period.

--------------------

ALOIS

ALOIS stands for "Advanced Log Data Insight System" and is meant to be a
fully implemented open source SIEM security information and event management
system.

ALOIS is incubating since 22nd October 2010.

The following items have been performed since the last reporting period:
 * Launch of the project website
 * Code review
 * Lightning Talk at the CCC Conference in Berlin
 * Promoting the project on different platforms
 * Preparing several talks and booths (Chemnitz, Berlin, CeBIT, ...)

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:
 * Releasing Version 1
 * Enlarge the developer base
 * Creating more use cases

How has the community developed since the last report:
 * Despite the activities no real community so far

How has the project developed since the last report:
 * The code is stable and accessible
 * The website is online and managed

--------------------

BeanValidation

Failed to report.  There is some degree of activity on its mailing lists,
and addition of new Committers.


--------------------

Bluesky

BlueSky has been incubating since 01-12-2008. It is an e-learning solution
designed to help solve the disparity in availability of qualified education
between well-developed cities and poorer regions of China.

The following items have been performed since the last reporting period:
 * Now improving the stability of system
 * Resolving the problems of having no Screen images
 * Resolving instability of the 2nd focus student's data transportation.

The following items are planned for the next reporting period:
 * Improving the stability of the system
 * add the function of recording video in the teacher part.


--------------------

EasyAnt

EasyAnt is a tool built on top of Ant and Ivy providing a standard approach
to building java projects without locking the users in.

Incubating since January 31st 2011

issues/agenda
- 1 ICLA missing. The person does not answer since Feb 4th 2011, when he
indicated he was working on getting the ICLA.

- the code base has been migrated in SVN

- the issues are in JIRA with component EASYANT


--------------------

Etch

Etch was accepted into Incubator on 2 September 2008.

Etch is a cross-platform, language- and transport-independent framework for
building and consuming network services. The Etch toolset includes a network
service description language, a compiler, and binding libraries for a
variety of programming languages.

For the last 3 months the main effort has been by Holger Grandy and Michael
Fitzner, who contributed some bug fixes and have been converting
documentation.

The transition of current Etch Website to the new Apache CMS is in progress.
Major parts of the sides are already available inside the CMS repository and
can be seen at the staging area.

The Spawn Labs team (Comer, Dixson) is working to integrate the c-binding
into their product. They've been very quiet lately. We miss them. Comer
wrote up something about his service cloud and is waiting for permission to
publish it.

Although progress is now visible, we still need to get more user and
development activity on our lists.

Top issues currently are:
- plan features and dates for release 1.2 / 1.1.1
- work on further language bindings
- website transition to Apache CMS
- documentation

Note by Martijn Dashorst: I met with Holger Grandy and Michael Fitzner at
FOSDEM'11 and we spoke about lots of stuff concerning Etch. I think the
future for the podling is bright, but we need to get more people involved by
publishing articles. The biggest problem is finding the right venues for
publishing the articles. I'll bring Etch under the attention of PR to see if
they have any good ideas.


--------------------

Gora

Gora is an ORM framework for column stores such as Apache HBase and
Apache Cassandra with a specific focus on Hadoop.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation

1. Port Gora code and license headers into ASF license headers
2. Develop a strong community with organizational diversity and with
infection into existing ASF projects like Nutch and Hadoop
3. At least one Gora incubating release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

No, not at this time.

How has the community developed since the last report?

The IPMC and Gora PPMC have elected to add Alexis Detreglode as a Gora
committer and PPMC member.

Mailing list activity has been picking up. We've recently been fielding
questions and even a patch from some of our users who are interesting in
helping to maintain a Maven-based version of the build system.

How has the project developed since the last report?

Gora was voted into the Incubator by the IPMC on September 26, 2010.

The project is currently rolling RC3 of our first 0.1-incubating
release. Henry Saputra and Andrzej Bialecki are leading the way.

The first 2 release candidates were tested, and we have been working
with the Incubator and Gora communities to address all of the issues
raised. We expect Apache Gora 0.1-incubating to be released within the
month, and expect Nutch 2.0-trunk to upgrade to the Gora release shortly
thereafter.

--------------------

Hama

Hama was accepted into Incubator on 20 May 2008. Hama is a distributed
computing framework based on BSP (Bulk Synchronous Parallel) computing
techniques for massive scientific computations.

== Top 2 or 3 things to resolve prior to graduation ==

 * Complete first release
 * Invite new active committers

== Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board ==

None.

== Community development ==

 * Mailing list shows increased usage from previous report
 * Chia-Hung Lin has contributed a part in the development of master-slave
communications
 * Tommaso Teofili has became a mentor
 * We made the plan for GSoC 2011

== Project development ==

 * The initial release is being voted
 * Random Communication Benchmark tool is added
 * Dozens of bugs fixed


--------------------

Isis

Isis is an ASL 2.0 licensed implementation of the Naked Objects pattern. It
is based on contributions of the original Naked Objects Framework along with
a number of sister projects that were developed for the book "Domain Driven
Design using Naked Objects".

Isis was accepted into the Incubator in 2010, September 7th.

Project development (month 6 of incubation):

 * Now (manually) publishing snapshots to Apache snapshot repo, so would-be
users no longer need to compile source
 * New Maven archetype and cheat sheet, so would-be users can get started
more quickly
 * New materials on website so would-be promoters of Isis can spread the
word (downloadable presentation materials)
 * Working on Isis documentation and internal code refactorings to build
community credibility
 * Refactoring of codebase in order to support proposal objectives (JSR-299)

Community Development (month 6 of incubation):

 * A few more new names on isis-dev@incubator.apache.org
 * New materials on website to support community (cheat sheet, downloadable
presentation materials)
 * Mailing list volumes still quite low, but a few more names are showing up
 * Wiki continuing to get useful content on snapshot deployment,
certificates for code signing, building Maven archetypes

Top 3 Issues to address in move towards graduation:

 * Putting good documentation site out as start-off to building larger
community.
 * Getting first release out to demonstrate credibility.
 * Promoting via additional channels (e.g., blogs, articles)

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

 None of these issues requires Board attention.

New Releases:

 There is currently no incubator release yet.


--------------------

Jena

Jena was accepted into the Apache Incubator November 2010
(http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/incubator-general/201011.mbox/%3C4
CEC31E4.9080401@apache.org%3E). It is an existing project migrating to ASF.
It has a large
codebase that provides a semantic web framework in Java that implements
the key W3C recommendations for the core semantic web technologies of
RDF and SPARQL.

Three most important issues to address for graduation:

* Create a code base in Apache with legal clearance.
* Establish the Apache-based community for developers, contributors and
users
* Create and communicate open project processes aligned to Apache

Issues for the Incubator PMC or ASF Board:

None.

Community development:

We have started to advertise the existence of Apache-hosted mailing lists.
Traffic on these lists continues to grow.

The development community is growing on Apache infrastructure.  A
significant new piece of functionality for the SPARQL query engine is being
developed via contributions and discussion on JIRA.

Project development:

The mailing lists and JIRA are now being used - we'll start more active
migration of mailing lists when the code migrates.

We are still awaiting the software grant from HP. As this is the majority of
the codebase, we are waiting for this before migrating any code into Apache
SVN. We understand that HP is actively working on this.


--------------------

Kato

Kato was accepted into the Incubator on 6 November 2008.

Kato is a project to develop the Specification, Reference Implementation,
and TCK for JSR 326: the JVM Post-mortem Diagnostics API.

Recent Activity:

* While Oracle has expressed a continued interest in the JSR-326, there has
been no change in the podling's status since the last report in June.
* As in June, the project is effectively paused until Oracle's involvement
in the Kato podling has been clarified. The credibility of the standard
relies on there being more than one major Java VM vendor involved.

The following is planned for next reporting period:

* To be determined once Oracle's involvement has been established.

Before this project can graduate we need to encourage more participation in
the project and grow the community.


--------------------

Lucene.NET

Lucene.Net was accepted into the Apache Incubator in February 2011.
Originally it was a sub project of the Lucene Project.

Lucene.Net is a port of the Lucene search engine library, written in C# and
targeted at .NET runtime users. Lucene.Net has three primary goals:
* Maintain the existing line-by-line port from Java to C#, fully automating
and commoditizing the process such that the project can easily synchronize
with the Java Lucene release schedule.
* High-performance C# search engine library.
* Maximize usability and power when used within the .NET runtime. To that
end, it will present a highly idiomatic, carefully tailored API that takes
advantage of many of the special features of the .NET runtime.

Recent Activity:

* Our new website is currently in the staging area utilizing the new ASF CMS
system
* We have officially released Lucene.Net 2.9.2.

Current Activities:

* Fully launch website
* Quickly iterate our release from 2.9.2 to 2.9.4
* Develop a process for continuous integration, unit testing, and code
coverage
* Develop a process to automatically (as much as possible) convert the Java
Lucene code to C# (to maintain our line by line port)

Goals for graduation:

* Have a nearly fully automated process to convert Java Lucene to C#.
* Release Lucene.Net 3.0.3 (port of Java Lucene 3.0.3)
* Have a new .NET version of Lucene utilizing .NET constructs and idioms


--------------------

ManifoldCF

--Description--

ManifoldCF is an incremental crawler framework and set of connectors
designed to pull documents from various kinds of repositories into search
engine indexes or other targets. The current bevy of connectors includes
Documentum (EMC), FileNet (IBM), LiveLink (OpenText), Meridio (Autonomy),
SharePoint (Microsoft), RSS feeds, and web content. ManifoldCF also provides
components for individual document security within a target search engine,
so that repository security access conventions can be enforced in the search
results.

ManifoldCF has been in incubation since January, 2010. It was originally a
planned subproject of Lucene but is now a likely top-level project.

--A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation--

1. We need at least three additional active committers, as well as
additional users and repeat contributors
2. We should have at least one or two more releases before graduating
3. We'd like to see long-term contributions for project testing, especially
infrastructure access

--Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?--

All issues have been addressed to our satisfaction at this time.

--How has the community developed since the last report?--

A book is being written, and has entered the early-release phase, available
from Manning Publishing.  We continue to have user community interest.
We've had a number of extremely helpful bug reports and contributions from
the field.  The active committer list remains short, however.

--How has the project developed since the last report?--

An 0.1 release was made on January 31, 2011, and another release is being
considered.  Contributions extending the FileNet connector have been made,
as well as contributions to the Solr connector.


--------------------

Mesos

Mesos is a cluster manager that provides resource sharing and isolation
across cluster applications.

Mesos entered incubation on December 23rd, 2010

Over the past month, we finalized the IP transfer paperwork with UC Berkeley
and submitted our Software Grant Assignment form. We migrated major issues
to the Apache issue tracker. We also we merged in the major event history
database patch, and continued developing and testing the communication layer
upgrade to Protocol Buffers. We also improved the Mesos public
documentation.

Most important issues to address towards graduation:
 - Migrate code from GitHub to Apache SVN
 - Grow the user and developer community
 - Continue improving the documentation for Mesos


--------------------

OpenNLP

OpenNLP is a machine learning based toolkit for the processing of natural
language text. It supports the most common NLP tasks, such as tokenization,
sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction,
chunking, parsing, and coreference resolution. These tasks are usually
required to build more advanced text processing services.

OpenNLP entered incubation on 11/23 2010.

We are right now working on getting our first release out, we already
created two release candidates and
are busy with testing and bug fixing. The release will hopefully be released
in late March or early
April. For the testing we are now using all supported public data sets and
distribute the task among
the committers which brings us closer to our third goal to have open
regression tests.
There is still good activity on our user and dev mailing list.

A list of the three most important issues to address in the move towards
graduation:

 * Resolve potential IP issues around releasing training models
 * Do a release
 * Establish open regression tests


--------------------

RAT

RAT is a Java library that scans files for known licenses and reports files
that lack any of them.  Three front-ends to said library exist in form of a
command line client, an Ant task and a Maven plugin.

RAT entered the Incubator in January 2008.

Two issues have been opened in JIRA, one has been closed as WONTFIX.  No
other activities during the past quarter.


--------------------

Wave

Wave a real-time communication and collaboration tool. Wave in a Box
(WIAB) is a server that hosts and federates waves, supports extensive
APIs, and provides a rich web client. This project also includes an
implementation of the Wave Federation protocol, to enable federated
collaboration systems (such as multiple interoperable WIAB instances).

Recent activities:

* Elected a new committer, Yuri Z
* Project web site infrastructure (CMS, SVN) set up and Apache web site
created
* SVN, Jira, and review board are set up (but nothing imported yet)
* New demo instance waveinabox.net:9898 deployed
* Lots of mailing list traffic in February: 191 posts from over 40 people
* And lots of code: 26 patches committed, 15 bugs closed
* Enabled persistent storage of waves
* Basic client/server search protocol
* Google Wave search UI implemented with client-side optimistic digests

Most important issues are:

* Migrate source code and issues from code.google.com to SVN and Jira
* Finish implementation of indexing and improved client-server protocol
* Implement WIAB functionality to import waves (deltas) from Google Wave


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

Apache Jackrabbit(TM) is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java(TM) Technology API (JCR, specified in JSR 170 and 283).

The Apache Jackrabbit project is in good shape. We have no board-level
issues at this time.

o Releases

  We made three Jackrabbit 2.2.x patch releases in this quarter:

  * Apache Jackrabbit 2.2.4 on February 15th
  * Apache Jackrabbit 2.2.2 on January 26th
  * Apache Jackrabbit 2.2.1 on January 11th

o Legal / Branding

  No open issues.

o Community / Development

  Our efforts to better identify key contributors and offer them
  committership are starting to bear fruit. In this quarter
  Berry van Halderen and Thomas Draier joined us as committers and
  PMC members, and we are expecting to welcome more members soon.

  We are happy to see Apache Chemistry reach TLP status, and contributed
  a supporting quote to the press release about their graduation.

o Infrastructure

  We have consensus on moving our web site from Confluence to the new
  CMS, but have yet to start the migration.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Karaf Project

Apache Karaf provides higher level features and services 
specifically designed for creating OSGi-based servers.

Community
=========
The community has changed a bit:
  * Andreas Pieber has been voted in as a committer and PMC member
  * Achim Nierbeck has been invited to the PMC
Mailing lists:
  * 58 subscribers to dev@, roughly 775 mails in the past 3 months
  * 94 subscribers to user@, roughly 290 mails in the past 3 months

Development
===========
Two releases have been voted
 * Apache Karaf 2.1.4
 * Apache Karaf 2.2.0

Web Site
========
The website has been moved switched out of confluence
to a scalate based solution.  Confluence will still be
kept as a wiki for a few pages.

Branding
========
 * project website basics: ok
 * website nav links: ok
 * trademarks: ok
 * logo: we're still missing the TM on the logo
 * metadata: ok

Issues for board consideration
==============================
None so far.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

Apache Labs hosts small and emerging projects from ASF committers.

[SUMMARY]

Labs activity has dropped considerably over the last quarters. This quarter 
has seen an all-time low in commits and mailing list discussions.
Hopefully we can spawn new initiatives for Lab's renaissance in the 
upcoming months.

[DETAILS]

== Labs Statistics ==

- new: 0
- status changes (last 3 months): 1
- total number: 35 
  - active: 13
  - idle: 15
  - promoted: 3
  - completed: 4 
- labs with commits: jaxmas, magma, noggit

== Completed Labs == 

Axmake has changed its status to completed.

== Community ==

Very few activities.

Both Henri Yandell and Martin Cooper have resigned from the PMC.

No new Labs have been created over the last quarter. 

A contribution on the ML for our "doapizer tool" has not received an answer 
so far.

== Code == 

We only had 7 or so commits this quarter. 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

TLP

Trademarks:
We have not made progress on trademarks since the last board report, but
do intend to finish the necessary pieces.

    * Project Naming And Descriptions : 
      We believe this is complete, but are still reviewing.
    * Website Navigation Links : navbar links included, link to www.apache.org 
      included
      Likely complete, but under review.
    * Trademark Attributions : attribution for all ASF marks included in 
      footers, etc.
      The main TLP site is converted, subproject sites have not.  
    * Logos and Graphics : include TM, use consistent product logo on your site
      In progress.  Some have been converted to have TM, some not.  We don't 
      seem to have ready volunteers on the graphical front, so it is slower
      than we'd like
    * Project Metadata : DOAP file checked in and up to date
      Done


Issues:
Lucene.Net has been moved to Incubator with a new set of committers
and new oversight with the goal of becoming a TLP.

LUCENE JAVA/Solr

Lucene Java is a search-engine toolkit and Solr is a search server
built on top of Lucene. The community is very active.
The community is very close to a 3.1 release of both Lucene
and Solr.

Dawid Weiss and Stanislaw Osinski were added as committers


Open Relevance Project

The Open Relevance Project is a project aimed at providing Lucene
and others tools for judging the quality of search and machine
learning approaches.  The community is not very active, but
we don't expect it to be very high volume either as it is a niche
area.  Having said that, we have discussed if it might be better
served as simply being a part of Lucene/Solr.  

PyLucene

PyLucene is a Python integration of Lucene Java.  Development is
almost entirely an automated port, so this project will never
require a lot of developers.  The user community is active.
The project will release 3.1 once the Java version is released.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

Apache OFBiz (The Apache Open For Business Project) is an open source
enterprise automation software project. By enterprise automation we mean:
ERP, CRM, E-Business / E-Commerce, MRP, SCM, CMMS/EAM, and so on.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

*Project Branding Checklist*
Project Website Basics: complete
Project Naming And Descriptions: complete
Website Navigation Links: complete
Trademark Attributions: complete
Logos and Graphics: in progress - include TM, use consistent product 
  logo on your site; we have a logo with a small feather
  (different from the Apache feather) and without TM
Project Metadata: complete

The main pages (index, download) should be now compliant with the project 
branding guidelines; however there are several Confluence based pages
(linked from the home page) that still need to be reviewed.

*Releases*
- Apache OFBiz 10.04 has been released on the 19th of January, 2011; it is 
  the first release of the 10.04 series based on the (feature freeze) branch 
  created on April 2010
- Apache OFBiz 09.04.01 has been released on the 25th of January, 2011; it 
  is the first bug fix release of the 09.04 series and supersedes the 
  previous Apache OFBiz 09.04

*Community and Project*

- New committer : Sascha Rodekamp
- Community interaction remains strong, user and dev mailing lists traffic
  is high
- Significant new development continues, for highlights see:
  http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OFBIZ/Main+New+Features

*Infrastructure/Legal*
- no issues


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache OODT Project

Releases/Development:

Progress towards the 0.3 release is steady. We've already 
made a number of improvements, including the addition of the 
PCS interface, providing tools for workflow provenance, health 
status checking, and file metadata listing across the OODT CAS 
components. Chris Mattmann, Paul Ramirez and Brian Foster are 
making good progress on OODT-139 [1] which exposes the underlying 
PCS functionality as JAX-RS REST services. There have been a number 
of bug fixes and improvements contributed as part of the PCS 
development process as well (e.g., see OODT-138 [2], OODT-141 [3] 
and OODT-142 [4]).

Cameron Goodale has done some fantastic work on getting the website 
up to snuff, helping to advertise version 0.2 (our first release as 
a TLP), and helping to add documentation and whatnot to help new OODT 
users. Chris Mattmann has also done some work in this area too, 
contributing some user docs and guides that were part of the original 
OODT distribution from JPL but that didn't originally make it to Apache 
(OODT-151 [5]).

Brian Foster contributed a CrawlerAction that executes an external 
process or script, allowing users to develop actions in other languages. 
See OODT-144 [6].

Community:

The OODT PMC added J. Steven Hughes as an OODT PMC Member/Committer.

Mailing list activity is steady on the user and the dev list. Chris Mattmann 
is having his students in his CSCI 578: Software Architectures course at USC 
this semester use Apache OODT in their projects, and advising the students to 
head to the mailing lists for conversation and help.

We've also had some good interest from outside users, in particular Windows 
folks trying to use OODT. We're fielding (no pun intended) those questions as 
they arise.

Chris Mattmann attended the NSF/USGS Geodata 2011 workshop in Colorado and 
had some positive conversations with USGS regarding Apache OODT.

NASA is holding its first ever Open Source Summit [7] 3/29-3/30. Chris 
Mattmann is going to give a Day 1 presentation, describing the Apache OODT 
experience, and helping to spread the cause. There will be a significant 
opportunity here to help shape the way that NASA deals with open source 
software (both producing and consuming) going forward.

Press:

The interviews for NASA Spinoff magazine article on OODT are complete. We're 
awaiting to hear back from the magazine and to see a draft of the article.

======

[1] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-139
[2] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-138
[3] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-141
[4] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-142
[5] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-151
[6] http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OODT-144
[7] http://www.nasa.gov/open/source/agenda/index.html


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache OpenWebBeans Project

OpenWebBeans is an ALv2-licensed implementation of the "Contexts and
Dependency Injection for the Java EE platform" specification which is 
defined as JSR-299.

OpenWebBeans has graduated from the Incubator in 16, December 2009.

Board Issues

    * There are no issues that require Board attention.

Development

    * Bug fixes and performance improvement.
    * Code improvement.

New Releases

    * No new release, planned to release at the end of March.
    * Last release 1.0.0, 19 Oct 2010.

Discussions

    * Mostly on performance related design of OWB.
    * Kick off designing of Apache OpenWebBeans Logo.

Community

    * No new committer.
    * Last committer, David Jencks, 3 Nov. 2010

Project Branding

    * Project Website Basics          ,DONE.
    * Project Naming And Descriptions ,TODO
    * Website Navigation Links        ,TODO
    * Trademark Attributions          ,TODO
    * Logos and Graphics              ,TODO
    * Project Metadata                ,DONE.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Pig Project

Pig is a platform for analyzing large data sets that consists of a 
high-level language for expressing data analysis programs, coupled with 
infrastructure for evaluating these programs. The salient property of 
Pig programs is that their structure is amenable to substantial 
parallelization, which in turns enables them to handle very large data sets.

Pig held its 4th Contributor Workshop attended by 10+ developers. We 
have discussed error handling proposal for pig as well as project plans 
for Pig 0.9.0 and beyond.

Pig now has an active IRC room on freenode, #hadoop-pig, which has 
between 18 and 24 people in it daily.

Releases:
* Pig 0.8.0 released on 12/17/10.

Committers:
* Julien Le Dem became Pig committer

Community:
* 531 subscribers to user mailing list (513 in the last report)
* 211 subscribers to dev mailing list (204 in the last report)

Status of branding checklist:

Project Naming and Description: DONE
Website Navigation Links: DONE
Trademark Attributions: IN PROGRESS
Logos and Graphics: NOT STARTED
Project Metadata: NOT STARTED


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Pivot Project

Apache Pivot is an open-source platform for building installable Internet
applications (IIAs) in Java.

- Pivot 2.0 released on January 10
- User list traffic showing increase after 2.0 release
- No new committers added since last report
- Chris Bartlett added as PMC member
- Todd Volkert replaced Greg Brown as PMC chair


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

-- New Releases --

none

-- New Committers --

none

-- Status --

1. Pluto

No new releases, low activity

2. Jetspeed-2

No new releases, activity has begun to pickup recently. Several team
members published a Roadmap for 2011 and have slowly started working
on some of the listed features:

http://portals.apache.org/jetspeed-2/roadmap.html

3. Portals Applications

No new releases, low activity

4. Portals Bridges

No new releases, low activity


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache River Project

Apache River is a distributed computing architecture, based on the JSK
Starter Kit Source code donated by Sun Microsystems, for the Jini
Specification.


Releases:
The final push of the work to complete our first TLP release is still
ongoing.  We expect to be able to cut a release early next month.

Progress:
The mailing lists continue to produce useful and interesting discussions,
given the comparatively small community this does not always translate
directly to many commits and releases.  This does not worry us at this
time because we are confident that the issues we are tackling are of
significant complexity that 'doing it right' is a more appropriate
approach than 'doing it quickly'.

Community:
Our new committer has had his account setup.  The rest of the community
continues to engage in productive discussions and we have seen a number
of new pieces of functionality be suggested.

Issues:
No board issues at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache ServiceMix Project

Project Status
--------------

We continue to have an active community with high levels of participation 
from users on mailing lists, IRC, and issue reporting in Jira.

No issues for the board to consider.

Community
---------

* Voted and accepted Ioannis Canellos as Committer

Community Objectives
--------------------
Roadmap - The community has spent the last 3 months discussing the future 
roadmap for ServiceMix 4.4 and 5.0 with healthy participation by interested 
parties (both committers and users participating).  A maintenance release 
for ServiceMix 3.4 is also being discussed.

Web Site and Documentation - Work is underway to move the web site content 
from the Confluence export plugin to being static generated content with 
some community managed content remaining as wiki pages in Confluence.  As 
part of this effort we are updating our logo, branding and web site content 
to reflect the "Apache Project Branding Requirements".  The community is 
also creating new documentation that will be maintained with each release 
so that we can provide release specific docs that are self contained.

Branding Status
---------------
- Project Naming And Descriptions : Compliant
- Website Navigation Links : Partial compliance (need to standardize link 
  text) will achieve compliance in pending new web site.
- Trademark Attributions : Non-compliant, will be compliant in new web site.
- Logos and Graphics : Current logo is not compliant, new logo will 
  be compliant
- Project Metadata : Compliant

Releases
--------
ServiceMix Features 4.3.0 (Main ESB Distribution)
ServiceMix Components 2010.02
ServiceMix Specs 1.7.0
ServiceMix Utils 1.4.0
ServiceMix NMR 1.3.0
ServiceMix NMR 1.4.0


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Shiro Project

Apache Shiro is a powerful and flexible open-source application security
framework that cleanly handles authentication, authorization, enterprise
session management and cryptography.

We have no issues that require Board assistance at this time.

Releases:
- No releases since our first 1 Nov 2010 1.1.0 release

Community & Project:
 - No new committers or PMC members

 - The project team is discussing the possibility of releasing a
  1.1.1 bug fix point release or moving directly to a 1.2 release.

 - Documentation efforts have increased significantly the last two
  months, with new Authentication and Authorization guides being written
  with many cleanup edits of the existing framework documentation.
  February (last month) represented the highest traffic volume to date
  for the Apache Shiro website (just shy of 10k site visits), indicating
  these edits are paying off.

 - Some new integration efforts by both committers and end-users for
  integrating with third party authentication systems seems to have picked up
  lately, with discussions about supporting OpenId, OAuth, and maybe
  Oracle SSO

 - In the last three months, the community has indicated areas for
  significant improvement in the codebase which will probably make their
  way into a 2.0 release.  There is currently no timeline for 2.0, but
  ideas are being tracked at
  https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/SHIRO/Version+2+Brainstorming.

  Most notable of the improvements are the continued migration to favoring
  architecture that emphasizes OO composition over inheritance, affording
  our end-users an even more pluggable approach to application security.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Sling Project

Sling is an OSGI-based scriptable web framework that uses a Java Content
Repository, such as Apache Jackrabbit, to store and manage content.

Sling graduated as a TLP on June 17th, 2009.

There are no issues which require board attention at the moment.

Community

* Carl Hall added as a committer (February 18, 2011)

Releases
* Apache Sling Launchpad Integration Tests 1.0.0 (March 04, 2011)
* Apache Sling Launchpad Testing Services 2.0.8 (March 04, 2011)
* Apache Sling Launchpad Testing Services WAR 2.0.8 (March 04, 2011)
* Apache Sling Javascript 2.0.12 (February 26, 2011)
* Apache Sling Explorer 1.0.2 (February 24, 2011)
* Apache Sling JCR Resource 2.0.10 (February 24, 2011)
* Apache Sling Engine 2.2.2 (February 24, 2011)
* Apache Sling Installer IT Testing 3.1.2 (February 24, 2011)
* Apache Sling Servlets Get 2.1.2 (February 18, 2011)
* Apache Sling Installer Core 3.1.2 (February 4, 2011)
* Apache Sling JCR Installer 3.0.4 (February 4, 2011)
* Apache Sling Event 3.0.2 (February 4, 2011)
* Apache Sling JCR Resource 2.0.8 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling Engine 2.2.0 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling Bundle Resource Provider 2.0.6 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling File Resource Provider 1.0.2 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling Auth Core 1.0.6 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling Auth Selector 1.0.4 (January 28, 2011)
* Apache Sling Commons Compiler 2.0.2 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling JCR Compiler 2.0.2 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling Commons Log 2.1.2 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling Event 3.0.0 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling Scripting JSP 2.0.14 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling Installer Core 3.1.0 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling JCR Installer 3.0.2 (January 21, 2011)
* Apache Sling Maven Launchpad Plugin 2.0.8 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Commons Compiler 2.0.0 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling i18n 2.0.4 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Commons Json 2.0.6 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Commons Log 2.1.0 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Scripting Java 2.0.0 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Scripting JST 2.0.4 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Scripting API 2.1.2 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Scripting JSP 2.0.12 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Scripting Javascript 2.0.10 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling JCR Compiler 2.0.0 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Auth Core 1.0.4 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Auth Selector 1.0.2 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Auth Form 1.0.2 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling Auth OpenId 1.0.2 (December 20, 2010)
* Apache Sling JCR ContentLoader 2.1.2 (December 20, 2010)

Documentation

* Website documentation is steadily improving

Project Branding

* Project Website Basics: done
* Project Naming And Descriptions: done
* Website Navigation Links: partial
  ** Open Question regarding "License" link
* Trademark Attributions: done
  ** Attribution on footer of each page
* Logos and Graphics: open
  ** TM missing from all Logos
* Project Metadata: done


Licensing and other issues

* none 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- Steve Freegard (smf) became an Apache SpamAssassin committer!

- nightly sa-update updates have temporarily ceased since our last report
  to the board due to an inadequate amount of spam being submitted; one
  of the major factors in this was the loss of my own (Daryl) spam
  corpora generating infrastructure to an IBM Deathstar that I had
  thought I had taken out of service long ago

- we had a new mailing list created to discuss rule update related stuff:
  ruleqa@spamassassin.apache.org

- we've recruited a number of new mass-check contributors; hopefully
  nightly updates will resume soon

- we continue to solicit new mass-check contributors; the more ham
  and spam emails that we can test rules against the better the
  accuracy of SpamAssassin's published ruleset.

- users' list is active; questions get asked and answered.

- dev list has been active with both committers and community members
  contributing

== Branding ==

** No change since last report. **

While we've been careful to ensure "proper" branding of Apache SpamAssassin
since joining the ASF nearly a decade ago, we have not started on meeting
the specific requirements of the current branding requirements.  You'd be
hard pressed not to know we were "Apache SpamAssassin" when visiting our
non-wiki web pages.  Some areas of our wiki need updating to reflect the
Apache brand.

The following is a cursory review of our current branding:

Project Website Basics: mostly compliant

  All but sa-update mirrors are hosted on ASF infrastructure under the
  apache.org domain.

  Currently no link to www.apache.org on the project home page.

Project Naming And Descriptions: somewhat compliant

  The project home page uses "Apache SpamAssassin" prominently.  The download
  page isn't as good at using "Apache" in front of "SpamAssassin, but I think
  it'd be pretty difficult to miss the big bold "The Apache SpamAssassin
  Project" at the top of every page on our website (excluding the wiki).

  We do not have a one sentence project description on our home and
  download pages, although I note that the example provided at
  http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs#naming is actually three
  sentences in length, so I don't feel to bad about our 5 feature bullet
  points describing the project on our home page.

Website Navigation Links: not compliant

  We fail on all points.

Trademark Attributions: not compliant

  While we're generally good about using the term "Apache SpamAssassin" we're
  short on "TM"s.

Logos and Graphics: half way there

  We're consistent with logo use but lacking the "TM"s.

Project Metadata: in progress

  A DOAP file exists.  It's accurate, except for an incorrect link to our bug
  tracker.

Other Trademark Guidelines:

  spamassassin.org has been assigned to and managed by the ASF for the better
  part of a decade.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Synapse Project

Community

Synapse voted in one new committer: Heshan Suriyaarachchi

We lost a long time committer and PMC member: Asankha Perera resigned
from both the PMC and committership. Asankha had moved onto another
ESB project a while back but had kept his committership in Synapse.
However, in January Asankha resigned this. As PMC chair I would like
to thank him for all his hard work and contributions on Synapse.

Releases
Synapse 2.0 was finally released! Thanks to all the team, especially
to Ruwan Linton who was the release manager.

Board issues
None identified.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

Summary:
The project continues to be active on a number of fronts.
There are no issues requiring Board attention at this time.


Releases:
Apache Tomcat 7.0.11 - released
Apache Tomcat 7.0.10 - released
Apache Tomcat 7.0.8  - released
Apache Tomcat 7.0.7  - released
Apache Tomcat 7.0.6  - released as first stable

Apache Tomcat 6.0.32 - released
Apache Tomcat 6.0.30 - released

Apache Tomcat 5.5.33 - released
Apache Tomcat 5.5.32 - released


Security:
We've been working closely with security issue reports and the Apache
Security committee on quickly replying to issues, resolving them, and
coordinating public disclosures.

CVE-2011-1088 Security constraint bypass. When a web application was
started, ServletSecurity annotations were ignored.

CVE-2011-0534 Remote Denial Of Service. The NIO connector expands its
buffer endlessly during request line processing. That behaviour can
be used for a denial of service attack using a carefully crafted
request.

CVE-2011-0013 Cross-site scripting. The HTML Manager interface
displayed web application provided data, such as display names,
without filtering.


Development:
Development was concentrated mainly on fixing bugs for the current
releases and pushing those releases out.

We hope to have some committers at Knockree Retreat
Plans still TBD.

GSoC: Change of approach in an effort to increase student ownership of
their GSoC work. No plans to propose projects for students. Happy to
consider student proposed projects.

JCP: EL 2.2 TCK still not available over 12 months since the initial
request from the ASF. Not expecting it any time soon. Currently
challenging two Servlet 3.0 TCK tests.

The ASF JIRA instance is now running on the latest Tomcat 7 release.


Trademark Issues:
We currently have two open trademark issues:
- http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/itomcats/id388474856?mt=8&ign-mpt=uo%3D4
  Rainer Jung is following up
- http://tomcat.jaxmao.org/
  Initial e-mail sent, no response received after 4 weeks

We have three trademark issues resolved:
- Tomcat plug-in for Eclipse changed their name to "Mongrel"
- Apache Tomcat Maven Plugin will become Apache Tomcat sub-project
  via incubator.
- TomCat Publishing. New independent book publisher. Not IT related.
  Not an issue.


Community:
There were no changes in the committership nor PMC membership
during this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AG: Status report for the Apache UIMA Project

Apache UIMA's mission: the creation and maintenance of open-source
software related to the analysis of unstructured data, guided by the
UIMA Oasis Standard.

PR:
Sally K did a Press Release with around UIMA's use in the
IBM Watson machine that played against Jeopardy!

Releases:
Since last report, we've almost released UIMA-AS (we're on RC6).

Development:
Got Continuous Integration going for UIMAJ and UIMA-AS using Hudson.
Got Sonar reporting going for UIMAJ.

Jira issues continue to come in and get worked on at a moderate rate,
including several in the UIMA-AS (Asynchronous Scaleout) area related
to various error recovery scenarios.

Work continues on Solrcas, a CAS Consumer which maps UIMA FeatureStructures 
to Solr fields.  AlchemyAPI has been extended with a new annotator which 
wraps the sentiment analysis web-service.

Community:
No changes. One user has now released a toolkit built on
top of UIMA: DKPro Core 1.1.0
 
Issues: No Board level issues at this time

Trademarks/Branding: A first pass on improving conformance to
trademark standards was completed; now all of our web pages have
the right footers.  Still have a bit more to do (e.g., adding
a small TM to our logo images).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AH: Status report for the Apache Wicket Project

Apache Wicket is a Java framework for creating highly dynamic, component
oriented web applications.

Things worthy of note:

- Released Apache Wicket 1.4.15, and 1.5-rc1 and 1.5-rc2
- Trademark issue with Seam Wicket was resolved amicably (project has been
  renamed Seam for Apache Wicket)

Release 1.5 is nearing completion: release candidates are pushed out at a semi
regular interval (about one every 3 weeks).

The JBoss Seam project asked about their use of the Wicket logo. In
cooperation with trademarks we asked them to rebrand their project Seam for
Apache Wicket. Trademarks approved of their use of our logo.

No new committers were added in this period. We recently added 3 new team
members and are still assimilating them into our collective. They have joined
the top committers since they've been elected. We are still on the lookout for
new committer blood to assimilate.

Compliance with branding/trademark guidelines

Only our logo on the webpage does not comply in missing a TM. We're still
working on a new web design and will incorporate the TM in that design. All
other items on the checklist are fulfilled.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AI: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AJ: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

XMLBeans is a technology for accessing XML by binding it to Java
types. XMLBeans provides an XMLSchema Object Model, and in-memory XML
store and a set of tools to make XML manipulation a lot much easier.

Though the traffic on the lists went down for the last 3 month, there
were a few instances when new users asked for new features and even
submitted a simple patch for a possible solution. This most likely shows
that new people are still using XMLBeans but in the same time it became
a solid and stable technology.

The PMC started discussions for a new XMLBeans release.

Since our last report to the board there were no new releases or
changes in the PMC or committers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AK: Status report for the Apache ZooKeeper Project

ZooKeeper status report for March 2011.

ZooKeeper is a reliable coordination service for distributed
applications.

The work of moving us to TLP has been underway for the past four
months and is essentially complete at this time. An umbrella JIRA is
available for tracking progress:
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZOOKEEPER-940

ZooKeeper 3.3.3 was released on 27 Feb, 2011

Three new committers were voted on and approved this month.

Community:

* 9 active committers representing 4 unique organizations
* 5 PMC members representing 2 unique organizations
* 206 subscribers on dev
* 420 subscribers on user


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the March 16, 2011 board meeting.
