                     The Apache Software Foundation

                   Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             13 May 1999


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 11:30am PDT -0700. It was started at 11:35am
    PDT.  A quorum was recognized by Brian Behlendorf, Chairman pro tem while
    Roy Fielding is in New Zealand.

 2. Roll Call
 
    The following directors were in attendance:
      Brian Behlendorf
      Ken Coar
      Dirk-Willem van Gulik
      Jim Jagielski
      Randy Terbush

 3. Minutes

    Ken commented that the draft minutes for the meeting of 4/27 did not
    accurately state his intentions regarding the proposal of additional
    responsibilities to board members (Special Order 6B).  The draft was
    modified and then approved as: board_minutes_1999_04_27.txt

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President.  [Brian]
      Brian reported that as of yet, he had had little luck in finding
      lawyers willing to do pro-bono work for ASF. On his "To Do" list
      is the "Position Description" for the legal services required,
      which we can then distribute to possible interested parties.
      Randy reported that he had some possible contacts regarding
      pro-bono work, and would pursue those possibilities.

    B. Treasurer.  [Randy]
      Randy reported that the ASF will have no problem obtaining and
      using a merchant account, with the ability to accept credit
      card transactions. The idea is that ASF could accept credit card
      donations if desirable.
      
      The Signature Card for the ASF's Checking Account is being distributed
      to the required board members. At this time, it has been received and
      signed by Jim, who will then forward it to Brian, who will then
      return in to Randy.

    C. Secretary.  [Jim]
      Jim reported on that status of the receipt of the required member
      and director forms. At the time, forms had not been received from:
      
         Brian Behlendorf
         Ralf S. Engelschall
         Alexei Kosut
         Ben Laurie
         Sameer Parekh
         Marc Slemko

      Jim also reported that he had received signed membership applications
      from Chuck Murcko and Dave Robinson, enabling ASF to continue
      Emeritus standing for these individuals. Jim also reported that
      he had been in contact with Aram Mirzadeh, who had expressed
      an interest in maintaining his relationship with ASF and becoming
      more involved. His signed forms were also received.
      
      It was questioned whether ASF should have "contingency plans" in
      case one, or more, AG members refuse to sign the required forms.
      After discussion, it was decided that such plans would most likely
      not be required.
      
      Jim had been sending Email reminders to all AG members reminding
      them of who had signed and who ASF still needed forms from. It was
      suggested that Brian also request that the "hold outs" sign and
      send their forms. This was agreed to by all. Additionally, Dirk
      indicated that he would talk to Ralf. It was also suggested that
      Roy talk to RST.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Conferences Committee.  [Ken]
      Ken reported that ASF and LKE had officially "parted ways." It
      was increasingly obvious that LKE was either unable or unwilling
      to appreciate the special nature of ASF and to organize a
      conference that did not limit or restrict outside activities
      of ASF members.

      Ken has a proposed RFP for ApacheCon which he will send out to ASF
      for comments. He will then send the RFP out to 2 to 4 management
      companies of which he is aware. Also, Ken and Drew are "working over"
      the old, proposed LKE contract to be used as a reference for ASF.

 6. Special Orders

   It was proposed that a "deadline" or "drop dead date" be set for the
   receipt of required ASF forms from members. The reasons were:

     1. It would be nice to be ready to incorporate when Roy returned
     2. Past experience has clearly shown that most members work
        better, and plan better, when a schedule and/or deadline is
        in place.

   May 18th, 1999 was proposed as the deadline. This was agreed to by
   all. Brian was selected to make a post to apache-core regarding
   this date.

   The movement of the APACHECON.com domain was discussed. At present,
   the domain contact and address information points to C2. It was
   suggested that this domain, and then all Apache domains, have their
   Internic records changed to point to ASF. The actual address to use
   as ASF was then discussed since it is possible that it could change
   each year as new officers are elected. Randy suggested that we look
   into a company in Delaware that provides virtual addresses (they
   accept postal mail and then forward it as specified). Jim questioned
   whether this was required. If, after a year, Jim decided not to rerun
   for secretary, or was not elected, he could just as easily forward
   the mail as this company, and ASF would save money. This was generally
   agreed to as acceptable but some directors wondered "how long Jim
   would be there at that address." Jim reported that he would not be
   leaving for quite a long time. It was finally agreed that Randy would
   look into the Delaware company as background, but that most likely,
   ASF would use the 1901 Munsey Drive address as the official ASF
   address and Jim would forward postal mail if, and as required, in
   the future.

   Randy reported that he knew Rob Kolstad and that maybe Rob K. could
   help us with ApacheCon in same way, or provide us with more contacts.
   Brian reported that he also knows Rob K. It was agreed that Randy
   should contact Rob Kolstad regarding ApacheCon.

 7. Unfinished Business

   None.

 8. New Business

   None

 9. Announcements

   Brian reported that his project at O'Reilly was almost ready for
   prime time and gave a URL for the board to look at. Because of
   the "sensitive nature" of this, these minutes will not provide
   more information.

   It was suggested and agreed to that we should reconsider the use
   of IRC to conduct the board meetings. The New Robert's Rules of
   Order state that IRC is acceptable. It was suggested and agreed
   to that the meeting after next might be a "good time" to try
   an IRC meeting, assuming that it's not our first official ASF
   meeting.

   The next meeting was tentatively scheduled for May 27, 1999 at 10:00am
   PDT. Final and official setting of the meeting would be done via
   Email.

10. Adjournment

   The motion to adjourn was moved and seconded. The meeting was
   adjourned at 12:35pm PDT.

