
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             22 June 1999


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was called to order at 10:07am PDT -0700. A quorum was
    recognized by the Chairman.

 2. Roll Call

    Board members in attendance:
      Brian Behlendorf
      Ken Coar
      Roy T. Fielding
      Jim Jagielski
      Randy Terbush
      Ben Laurie (at 10:40am)
      Ben Hyde (at 10:45am)

    Board members not in attendance:
      Sameer Parekh
      Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Guests:
      (none)

 3. Minutes

     Roy requested to amend the minutes to list those in attendance,
     rather than those absent. This was agreed to by all present. The
     minutes were approved as amended.

     apachegroup-site/records/minutes/1999/board_minutes_1999_06_01.txt

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]

        Brian reported upon the interest at the JavaOne conference
        regarding Sun's statement regarding assigning various code
        to "Apache." Because this was announced before the official
        announcement of the Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the
        actual recipient of the code was left "murky."

    B. Treasurer  [Randy]

        Randy reported that ASF is getting charged a $5/mo service fee
        on our bank account, due to a balance below $500. Covalent
        made a donation of $100 to ASF.

        Randy reported that he is still working on the writeup
        describing how to contribute to ASF.

    C. Secretary  [Jim]

        Jim reported that the ASF Corporate Seal was ordered but not
        yet received. ASF will be invoiced for the seal.

 5. Committee Reports

    [Apache Conference Committee]

     Ken reported that he had a number of new "leads" for management
     companies to handle ApacheCon, including ForeTec and SIGS.

     Ken was in the process of getting the ApacheCon site tarball
     from C2. This will be uploaded to Taz and Brian will make the
     required links to reactivate the site.

 6. Special Orders

    A. PR for announcement of The ASF
       See apache-core/Press/ASF-pr.txt

        All agreed that the ASF-pr.txt was a good draft of the PR.
        By general consent, the release of the PR, and the actual
        announcement of ASF was set as June 30, 1999.

        Brian indicated that he would contact ORA regarding the
        availability of resources to support the PR announcement.
        Roy suggested contacting Sally Khudairi (of ZOT Group)
        to possible handle the actual PR tasks for ASF. Brian was
        working on getting quotes from Apple and IBM for inclusion
        in the PR. The following board members were selected as
        points of contact for the PR release:

          Brian Behlendorf  (West Coast US)
          Roy T. Fielding   (West Coast US)
          Jim Jagielski     (East Coast US)
          Ben Laurie        (UK)

        Randy reported that he has heard that Rob Kolstad was
        having some "heart problems" and so it's unlikely the
        he would be available to help ASF as far as conferences
        and PR.

    B. Jakarta
       1) what does the board need to do to carry this forward?
       2) when does it need to be done
       3) who is going to do it

        Brian has the action item to define the process of adding the
        committee and the mechanics of the granting of the Sun code
        to ASF. He will create a Resolution creating the committee
        which will then be voted on.

    C. Finishing up the corporate loose ends
       1) Apache Group assignment of license/rights to The ASF

         Jim reported that as of the date of the meeting, he had
         not received any of the required forms assigning assets
         or licenses to ASF from The Apache Group or various members.
         Roy has the action item to ensure that the license-grant
         documents are correct and that the PDF is up to date.

       2) Members ballot for adding new members

         The addition of new members to ASF was discussed. It was
         agreed that a list of possible members would be generated
         and voted on. Approved members would then be contacted asking
         if they wished to join and requesting that the sign and FAX
         the membership application form.


 7. Unfinished Business

     Methods of raising revenue was discussed. It was agreed that
     the sale of traditional "promotional items" such as caps and
     tee-shirts would be a good starting point. Jim volunteered to
     contact various "promo-item" vendors to get pricing and
     availability.

 8. New Business

     None

 9. Announcements

     None

10. Adjournment

     The meeting was adjourned at 11:10am PDT -0700. The time and date
     of the next meeting was to be discussed and arranged via the
     mailing list.

