
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            01 November 1999


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PST -0800. The meeting
    was called to order at 10:12am. The meeting was held on IRC using
    the server at irc.rootsweb.com:6667 and channel #ASF.

 2. Roll Call

    Present: Ben Laurie, Brian Behlendorf, Roy Fielding, Randy Terbush,
             Jim Jagielski, Dirk-Willem van Gulik, Ken Coar
    Absent:  Ben Hyde, Sameer Parekh (arrived at 11:36am)
    Guests:  None

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 22 September 1999

    The minutes of the previous meeting were approved with the
    following amendment: Modify minutes to reflect Dirk voted +1
    on item 7.
    
    <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/1999/
    board_minutes_1999_09_22.txt>.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]

       Brian reported that he has been working with Dirk on the XML/Apache
       roll-up and announcement as well as talking with Sally Khudairi
       about the announcement logistics.  In addition, he has been working
       on plans for a new server, to be used by the ASF, that would be
       hosted in collab.net's space at Level3. This would be a donation
       to ASF from collab.net. After his report, Brian had
       to temporarily leave, signing off at 10:40.

    B. Treasurer  [Randy]

       Randy reported that as of November 1st, the ASF account had a
       balance of $25,172.52 with the following donations:
           Siemens      $20,000.00
           CopyLeft.net  $5,000.00
       These funds had no suggested target.

       Randy also reported that he had incorrectly reported at the last
       meeting that Roy had been reimbursed for $419.62. Instead, the check
       was going out that day.

       The ASF officially has an EIN number and Randy is proceeding to
       finalize the credit card merchant accounts that were waiting on
       the EIN. He will, some time in the near future, be putting a
       donations form online to begin receiving donations via credit card.

       Randy also reported that he was in contact with an accountant regarding
       the 501c3 issue and would provide more information as it develops.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim reported that he had not received signed forms from all members
       concerning the addition of the new members. The number of forms
       received, however, was sufficient for the action to pass.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conferences Committee [Ken]

       Ken reported that the committee was a little late in opening the CFP.
       However, 90 submissions were received by the deadline. There were
       originally 38 speaking slots to fill, but that number was increased
       to 41. The 41 slots were selected from the 90 submissions, so
       a preliminary program is now available.
    
       Ken reported that IBM had not yet committed to being a sponsor at any
       level but that Collab.Net and Covalent have both made sponsorship
       commitments. Ken also reported that the committee decided to reward
       various people with discount registrations: (1) people who attended
       AC'98, (2) people whose employers are exhibiting, and (3) people who
       submitted proposals but didn't get any of them accepted.

       There was some discussion concerning sponsorship credits.
    
    At 11:15am, the IRC server crashed. The meeting resumed at
    11:36am with the following members present: Brian, Roy, Randy, Dirk,
    Ben Laurie, Jim, Sameer, Ken
    
    B. Apache XML PMC [Dirk]

       Dirk reported that they were working on the lining up the code,
       finishing the web site, polishing the charter and bylaws, and
       coordinating the supporting infrastructure (mailing lists and CVS).
       The logistics of the announcement was also being worked on.

    C. Apache Server PMC [BenH]

       Tabled, since Ben Hyde could not attend.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Adopting the contributor license agreement.

       A proposed contributor license agreement was discussed.
       Brian made a motion to modify clause 4 of the proposed
       contributor license agreement to read as follows:
       
         4. You represent that, except as disclosed in your Contribution
            submission(s), each of your Contributions is your original
            creation. You represent that your Contribution submission(s)
            include complete details of any license or other restriction
            (including, but not limited to, related patents and trademarks)
            associated with any part of your Contribution(s) (including a copy
            of any applicable license agreement). You agree to notify the
            Foundation of any facts or circumstances of which you become
            aware and which would make Your representations in this Agreement
            inaccurate in any respect.

       This motion was passed by the following vote:
        Yes: Roy, Brian, Dirk, Ken, Jim, Ben Laurie
        No: Sameer
	Absent: Randy

       A vote was then called to approve R1 as amended above and the
       following resolution was approved by unanimous consent.
       
      ===================
      WHEREAS, Project Management Committees within The Apache Software
      Foundation have an immediate need for an approved text to be used as
      a Contributor License Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Contributor License Agreement
      attached hereto as Exhibit A may be used by all Project Management
      Committees within The Apache Software Foundation.
      ===================

    B. Modifications to Trademark Assignment agreement

       Tabled due to time considerations

 7. Unfinished Business

    A) Initial Foundation Budget

       Tabled due to time considerations

    B) Project Management Committees
       1) should the PMC report directly to the board
       2) should the PMC consist entirely of ASF members
       3) should the PMC chairperson be an ASF member
       4) should the PMC composition be set by the board or delegated
          to the project after the initial PMC creation
       5) should the appointment of the PMC chairperson be restricted to
          candidates proposed by the project

       Tabled due to time considerations

 8. New Business
    
    None.

 9. Announcements
    
    None.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned at 12:33pm.

 
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
Exhibit A: Contributor License Agreement


                 The Apache Software Foundation

                  Contributor License Agreement


Thank you for your interest in The Apache Software Foundation (the
"Foundation").  In order to clarify the intellectual property license
granted with contributions of software from any person or entity
(the "Contributor"), the Foundation would like to have a Contributor
License Agreement on file that has been signed by the Contributor,
indicating agreement to the license terms below.  This license is for
your protection as a Contributor of software to the Foundation and does
not change your right to use your own contributions for any other purpose.

If you have not already done so, please complete this Agreement
and send it by facsimile to the Foundation at +1-410-803-2258, or send a
photocopy by regular mail to The Apache Software Foundation,
1901 Munsey Drive, Forest Hill, MD 21050-2747, U.S.A.  Please read this
document carefully before signing and keep the original for your records.


Full
name:   ___________________________

Mailing
Address:___________________________   Telephone: ___________________

        ___________________________

        ___________________________   Facsimile: ___________________

        ___________________________

Country:___________________________   E-Mail:    ___________________


I hereby accept the following terms and conditions:

1. Your "Contributions" means all of your past, present and future
   contributions of object code, source code and documentation to the
   Foundation, however submitted to the Foundation.

2. You hereby grant to the Foundation a non-exclusive, irrevocable,
   worldwide, no-charge, transferable copyright license to use,
   execute, prepare derivative works of, and distribute (internally
   and externally, in object code and, if included in your
   Contributions, source code form) your Contributions.

3. You represent that you are legally entitled to grant the above
   license.  If your employer(s) have rights to intellectual property
   that you create, you represent that you have received permission
   to make the Contributions on behalf of that employer, or that your
   employer has waived such rights for your Contributions to the
   Foundation.

4. You represent that, except as disclosed in your Contribution
   submission(s), each of your Contributions is your original
   creation. You represent that your Contribution submission(s)
   include complete details of any license or other restriction
   (including, but not limited to, related patents and trademarks)
   associated with any part of your Contribution(s) (including a copy
   of any applicable license agreement). You agree to notify the
   Foundation of any facts or circumstances of which you become
   aware and which would make Your representations in this Agreement
   inaccurate in any respect.

5. You are not expected to provide support for your Contributions,
   except to the extent you desire to provide support. You may provide
   support for free, for a fee, or not at all. Your Contributions are
   provided AS-IS, without warranty of any kind (either express or
   implied) including, without limitation, any implied warranty of
   merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose and any
   warranty of non-infringement.


Please sign: ________________________________ Date: _____________________

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
