
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                           October 22, 2003


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10am PDT -0700. A sufficient
    attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by the chairman
    at 10:08am, at which point the meeting was called to order.  The
    meeting was held by teleconference hosted by Jim Jagielski.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present At Roll:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent At Roll:

        Mark Cox
        Ben Laurie
        Sam Ruby (arrived at 11:15)

    Guests:

        Jennifer Machovec (IBM)

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of February 19, 2003

       See board_minutes_2003_02_19.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board.
       
       Approved by General Consent.

    B. The meeting of February 26, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Sam Ruby]

    C. The meeting of August 20, 2003

       See board_minutes_2003_08_20.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board.

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. The meeting of September 17, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Jim Jagielski]


 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]
       Greg reported that he was quite busy of the last
       month on non-ASF related items. As such, he experienced
       some delay in getting in touch with Jason van Zyl and
       Doug MacEachern regarding the Maven and Perl projects,
       respectively.  Other than that, things had been
       quiet.

    B. President [Dirk]
       Dirk reported that he would respond to the
       request from Tetsuya Kitahata (Terra-International, Inc.)
       regarding an ASF Authorized Certification Program with
       the response that this is not something the ASF does.
       Although they are welcome and encourage to provide
       training, etc... the ASF cannot "certify" or "authorize"
       those programs.
       
       Dirk also mentioned some concern over whether the
       infrastructure team was setting or dictating aspects
       of ASF policy that it should not. He mentioned that
       he would encourage that "user interface" issues
       and discussions be moved to the community at large,
       rather than solely within infrastucture.
       
       Dirk mentioned that the inclusion of Spam Assassin
       was progressing.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]
    
        No report due to Chuck's absense.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       The ASF office has received over the last month several
       signed CLAs relating to the Spam Assassin project, which
       is being accepted into the ASF Incubator.  Other CLAs have
       also been received and logged.  The infrastructure team
       has suggested a web-based form to ease the workload on
       this administrative task, one which the Secretary
       whole-heartedly approves.

       We received notice from Dunn & Bradstreet that they could
       "not confirm" operation of the ASF. Basically, there was
       no phone number associated with the ASF, although they
       had on record the FAX and mail address.  To resolve this,
       I have given my home-office number (410-420-0140) as a
       "telephone number of record" to them.  We should simply
       have the 1901 Munsey Drive address and contact information
       as the address of record for the ASF.

       Notice was sent to the members@apache.org list regarding the
       Special ASF Members Meeting to be held November 16th and
       6pm (local time) at Alexis Park in Las Vegas during the
       ApacheCon event. A reminder, with actual room location will
       be sent out later this week. Included will be an attached
       Proxy form and a reminder of the duties required of an
       ASF member.

 5. Unfinished Business

    None.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Resolution to adopt a new version of the Apache License
       Resolution R1:

         WHEREAS, Project Management Committees within The Apache
         Software Foundation have an immediate need for an approved
         text to be used as a License for both software and
         documentation; and

         WHEREAS, it is desirable that such License be compatible with
         the Free Software Foundation's General Public License; and

         WHEREAS, public discussion of more extensive changes to the
         license, known as the proposed 2.0 license, is not expected
         to complete in time to satisfy the immediate need.

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Apache License,
         Version 1.2, attached hereto as Exhibit A, may be used by all
         Project Management Committees within The Apache Software
         Foundation for application to any of the work products of the
         Foundation, defining the terms and conditions of
         reproduction, distribution, and modification for those work
         products.

       This was tabled until the ASF Board Meeting to be
       held in November after review and discussion. However,
       general discussion of License and CLAs issues was held
       between the board and guess Jennifer Machovec (see below).
       
    B. Resolution to Appoint new Chair of the Apache Incubator Project
       Resolution R2:

       WHEREAS, the membership of the Apache Incubator Project Management
       Committee (PMC) have appointed Nicola Ken Barozzi to serve as
       chairman of the Apache Incubator PMC; and

       WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Apache Incubator
       PMC, Jim Jagielski, has stepped down from his position as Vice
       President, Apache Incubator, in favor of Nicola Ken Barozzi's
       appointment to that position.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Nicola Ken Barozzi be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Incubator, to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation
       until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       This was passed by Unanimous Consent.
       
    C. Resolution to Set Date/Time and Location for Special ASF
       Members Meeting:
       Resolution R3:

       WHEREAS, the many members of the Apache Software Foundation
       will be attending ApacheCon 2003 to be held in Las Vegas,
       Nevada; and

       WHEREAS, it is beneficial for members to meet to discuss
       issues which affect the Apache Software Foundation, over and
       beyond the required Annual ASF Members Meetings.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a special ASF Members Meeting
       shall be scheduled to take place on November 16, 2003 at 18:00
       Pacific Time (Las Vegas local time) at the Alexis Park Hotel,
       Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, in the Parthanon 4 Room.

       This was passed by Unanimous Consent.
       
 7. Committee Reports

    A. Apache DB Project [John McNally]

       No report.
       
    B. Apache Incubator Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Maven Project [Dion Gillard]

       See Attachment C. Also discussed at this time was
       Maven's use/non-use of ASF infrastructure. Jim
       volunteered to work with Infrastructure to obtain
       a "wish list" of infrastructure requirements from
       all PMCs (eg: Wiki's, jar repositories, etc..).

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache TCL Project [David Welton]

       See Attachment D. In the report it was noted
       that Damon Courtney's membership application was
       not sent in. Jim was to verify this.

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Conference Planning [Ken Coar]

       Ken reported that due to small projected attendence to
       some tutorials, they would either be cancelled or the
       amount paid to the speakers would be reduced.

    G. Security Team [Ben Laurie]

       See Attachment G

       Approved by General Consent.

 8. New Business
 
    The main topic of discussion was regarding general
    CLA issues. Guest Jennifer Machovec provided 2 proposed
    CLAs (see exhibit B and C), one for corporate
    clients and the other for individuals. The concept is
    that the company would provide to the ASF a full and
    complete list if all employees so authorized to provide
    IP to the ASF. The CLA would be the legal entity which
    states that any IP from anyone on that list is
    so contributed.
    
    It was noted that this would increase the amount of
    paperwork involved, as well as requiring ASF contributors
    to more formally inform the ASF of changes to their
    employment. There was also discussion on the requirement
    of an actual signed copy, rather than accepting a
    FAXed or other electronically verified copy. 

 9. Announcements

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PDT -0700. Adjourned at
    12:26pm.


========
EXHIBITS
========

-----------------------------------------
Exhibit A: Proposed version 1.2 of the Apache License


                               Apache License
                         Version 1.2, October 2003
                      http://www.apache.org/licenses/

            Copyright (C) 2003  The Apache Software Foundation.
         Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
         of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR REPRODUCTION, DISTRIBUTION, AND MODIFICATION

   1. These terms and conditions for reproduction, distribution, and
      modification (the "License") apply to any original work of
      authorship (the "Work") containing a notice placed by the
      copyright owner (the "Licensor") indicating that the Work is
      licensed under the Apache License, Version 1.2.

   2. Reproduction, distribution, and modification of the Work and
      derivative works thereof, in source or binary forms, are permitted
      provided that a copy of this License is included in any such
      distribution and that all copyright, patent, trademark, and
      attribution notices from the source code of the Work are retained
      in the source code of any derivative work, excluding those notices
      that only pertain to portions of the Work that have been excluded
      from the derivative work.

   3. This License does not grant permission to use the trademarks,
      trade names, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary "fair use" while
      describing the origin of the Work.

   4. Disclaimer of Warranty. The Work is provided on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or
      conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or
      FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

   5. Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances and under no legal
      theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or
      otherwise, shall the Licensor be liable to any person for any
      direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of
      any character arising as a result of this License or the use of
      the Work including, without limitation, damages for loss of
      goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any
      and all other commercial damages or losses. This limitation of
      liability shall not apply to liability for death or personal
      injury resulting from Licensor's negligence to the extent
      applicable law prohibits such limitation. Some jurisdictions do
      not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or
      consequential damages, so this exclusion and limitation may not
      apply to you.

                        END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright (C) [yyyy]  [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 1.2 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-1.2

   Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
   BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express
   or implied. See the License for the specific language governing
   permissions and limitations under the License.


-----------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------
Exhibit B: Proposed Apache Corporate CLA from Jennifer B Machovec


                The Apache Software Foundation

           Corporate Contributor License Agreement

Thank you for your interest in The Apache Software Foundation (the
"Foundation").  In order to clarify the intellectual property license
granted with contributions of software from any person or entity (the
"Contributor"), the Foundation must have a Contributor License Agreement
on file that has been signed by the Contributor, indicating agreement to
the license terms below.  This license is for your protection as a
Contributor as well as that of the Foundation and does not change your
right to use your own contributions for any other purpose.


If you have not already done so, please complete this Agreement and send
the original signed Agreement to The Apache Software Foundation, 
1901 Munsey Drive, Forest Hill, MD 21050-2747, U.S.A.  Please read this 
document carefully before signing and keep a copy for your records.


Full name: COMPANY NAME                   E-Mail:    ___________________



Mailing Address: COMPANY ADDRESS          Telephone: COMPANY PHONE



COMPANY CITY STATE ZIP                    Facsimile: COMPANY FAX



Attention:  COMPANY POC                   Country:   COMPANY COUNTRY





You and the Foundation hereby accept and agree to the following terms and
conditions:


1. Your "Contributions" means all of your present and future contributions
of object code, source code and documentation to the Foundation, however
submitted to the Foundation, excluding any submissions that are
conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a
Contribution." In accordance with Sections 5 and 6 below, you should not
submit as a 'Contribution' code that is not your original creation.

2. You hereby grant to the Foundation a non-exclusive, irrevocable,
worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, transferable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense and distribute (internally and externally, in object code and,
if included in your Contributions, source code form) your Contributions. 
You grant to the Foundation the right to authorize others to do any of the
foregoing.  Except for the rights granted to the Foundation in this
paragraph and the paragraph immediately below, you reserve all right, title
and interest in and to your Contributions.

3. You hereby grant to the Foundation and further grant to recipients of
your Contribution, direct or indirect, a non-exclusive, irrevocable except
as otherwise provided by this section, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free
patent license to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import, and otherwise
transfer your Contributions and derivative works thereof, where such
license applies only to those patent claims licensable by you that are
necessarily infringed by the Contribution(s) alone, or by the following
combinations when the infringement is caused by such Contribution:

i) the Contribution and the original work of authorship ("Work") licensed
by the Foundation to which you submitted such Contribution, and

ii) the Contribution and any then-existing publicly distributed version of
the Work.

Your patent grant shall terminate as to any party that institutes patent
litigation against you (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit) alleging that your Contribution and/or the Work, without
modification, constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, as of
the date such litigation is filed.

4. You represent that you are legally entitled to grant the above licenses.
 You   represent further that any employee making a Contribution to a Work
for which you have approved such employee’s participation, as designated on
Schedule A, is duly authorized to do so.

5. You represent that each of your Contributions is your original creation.
 
6. Should you wish to submit code that is not your original creation, you
may submit it to the Foundation separately from any Contribution,
identifying the complete details of its source and of any license or other
restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents, trademarks,
and license agreements) of which you are aware, and conspicuously marking
the code as 'Third Party Code.' 

7. You are not expected to provide support for your Contributions, except
to the extent you desire to provide support.  You may provide support for
free, for a fee, or not at all.  YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS ARE PROVIDED AS-IS,
WITH ALL FAULTS DEFECTS AND ERRORS, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND
(EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ANY
WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT.


Contributor:


COMPANY NAME



By: __________________________________ Date: ________________



Title:  _____________________________



-----------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------
Exhibit C: Proposed Apache Individual CLA from Jennifer B Machovec


                  The Apache Software Foundation

                   Contributor License Agreement

Thank you for your interest in The Apache Software Foundation (the
"Foundation").  In order to clarify the intellectual property license
granted with contributions of software from any person or entity (the
"Contributor"), the Foundation must have a Contributor License Agreement
on file that has been signed by the Contributor, indicating agreement to
the license terms below.  This license is for your protection as a
Contributor as well as that of the Foundation and does not change your
right to use your own contributions for any other purpose.

If you have not already done so, please complete this Agreement and send
the original signed Agreement to The Apache Software Foundation,
1901 Munsey Drive, Forest Hill, MD 21050-2747, U.S.A.  Please read this
document carefully before signing and keep a copy for your records.



  Full name: ____________________________  E-Mail:    ___________________



  Mailing Address: ______________________  Telephone: ___________________



  _______________________________________  Facsimile: ___________________



  _______________________________________  Country:   ___________________



  Employer: _____________________________________________________________



You and the Foundation hereby accept and agree to the following terms and
conditions:

1. Your "Contributions" means all of your present and future contributions
of object code, source code and documentation to the  Foundation, however
submitted to the Foundation, excluding any submissions that are
conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a
Contribution."  In accordance with Sections 5 and 6 below, you should not
submit as a 'Contribution' code that is not your original creation.

2. You hereby grant to the Foundation a non-exclusive, irrevocable,
worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, transferable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense and distribute (internally and externally, in object code and,
if included in your Contributions, source code form) your Contributions. 
You grant to the Foundation the right to authorize others to do any of the
foregoing.  Except for the rights granted to the Foundation in this
paragraph and the paragraph immediately below, you reserve all right, title
and interest in and to your Contributions.

3. You hereby grant to the Foundation and further grant to recipients of
your Contribution, direct or indirect, a non-exclusive, irrevocable (except
as otherwise provided by this section), worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free
patent license to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import, and otherwise
transfer your Contributions and derivative works thereof, where such
license applies only to those patent claims licensable by you that are
necessarily infringed by the Contribution(s) alone, or by the following
combinations when the infringement is caused by such Contribution:

i) the Contribution and the original work of authorship ("Work") licensed
by the Foundation to which you submitted such Contribution, and

ii) the Contribution and any then-existing publicly distributed version of
the Work.

Your patent grant shall terminate as to any party that institutes patent
litigation against you (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit) alleging that your Contribution and/or the Work, without
modification, constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, as of
the date such litigation is filed.

4. You represent that you are legally entitled to grant the above licenses.
 If your employer(s) has rights to intellectual property that you create,
you represent that you have received permission to make your Contributions
on behalf of that employer, or that your employer has waived such rights
for your Contributions to the Foundation.

5. You represent that each of your Contributions is your original creation.
 You represent that your Contribution submission(s) includes complete
details of any third-party license or other restriction (including, but not
limited to, related patents and trademarks) of which you are personally
aware and which are associated with any part of your Contribution(s)
(including a copy of any applicable license agreement).  You agree to
notify the Foundation of any   facts or circumstances that arise that you
are aware would make Your representations in this Agreement inaccurate in
any respect.

6. Should you wish to submit code that is not your original creation, you
may submit it to the Foundation separately from any Contribution,
identifying the complete details of its source and of any license or other
restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents, trademarks,
and license agreements) of which you are personally aware, and
conspicuously marking the code as 'Third Party Code.'

7. You are not expected to provide support for your Contributions, except
to the extent you desire to provide support.  You may provide support for
free, for a fee, or not at all.  Your Contributions are provided as-is,
with all faults defects and errors, and without warranty of any kind
(either express or implied) including, without limitation, any implied
warranty of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose and any
warranty of non-infringement.



Please sign: __________________________________ Date: ________________





-----------------------------------------

===========
ATTACHMENTS
===========

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache DB Project

[ no attachment ]

-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

Jim Jagielski has asked to step down as the Chair of the Incubator
PMC.  An election was held and the PMC has recommended that
the board appoint Nicola Ken Barozzi as replacement PMC Chair.

The Incubator web site is being significantly updated to better
reflect reality and to expressly state the requirements and
assumptions within the ASF and the Incubator.

Spam Assassin is being added to the Incubator fold. We are in
the process of receiving the required CLAs from all SA
contributors, and there are many of them. No "Mentor/Shepherd"
(see below) has been selected appointed yet (officially).

Pluto is also being added to the fold.  At present, the s/w
base as been copyright assigned and licensed to the ASF. CLAs
of all contributors have also been submitted and received.
The Jakarta PMC has agreed to accept Pluto after successful
incubation.

There is ongoing discussion within Incubator regarding its
function and role and how to best accomplish them. Discussion
regarding terminology (such as "Mentor" or "Shepherd") as
well as procedures are being (hopefully) finalized.

The current roster of the Incubator PMC consists of:

   Aaron Bannert
   Nicola Ken Barozzi  (Chair select)
   Noel Bergman
   Ken Coar
   Roy Fielding
   B. W. Fitzpatrick
   Paul Hammant
   Ted Leung
   Jim Jagielski
   Sam Ruby
   Leo Simmons
   Davanum Srinivas
   Greg Stein
   Sander Striker


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

Maven 1.0 RC1 was released 30 September. This was another quiet
release mostly fixing problems with plugins and adding functionality
that allows the automated download and installation of plugins. There
is also a Windows installer available.

Maven plugins are now being released on their own cycle, and many have
moved into the maven-plugins cvs module. This has allowed critical
bugfixes and improvements to get to the users much more quickly.

We are now working on RC2 which will focus on some impressive
performance and memory usage improvements, as well as fixing the
remaining known bugs.  The distributions of maven releases were
consolidated from jakarta, ibiblio and maven.apache.org and are all
now available via the mirrors and www.apache.org/dist/maven. All
releases were pgp signed.

Brett Porter was voted as a new committer.

Our release schedule is available at 
http://jira.codehaus.org/secure/BrowseProject.jspa?id=10030&report=roadmap

-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache TCL Project

This quarter has gone relatively well for the Apache Tcl group.

Websh was featured favorably on the cover of Linux Magazin and in the
corresponding article inside.

Apache Rivet today released version 0.2.0 of the software, and has
seen quite a bit of activity, as well as a new committer, Andy Doerr.

Outstanding issues: Damon Courtney apparently has not sent in his
membership application.  It's important that he do that in order to
vote in the upcoming elections at the member's meeting.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache James Project

What code releases have been made?

  The past 3 months have been slower than normal for the James
  project.  We have integrated virtually all major changes in the 3.0
  branch into 2.X branch and continue to release beta-quality 2.2
  snapshots.  Release 2.1.3 is still the last stable release.  We are
  still working with Avalon to figure out an appropriate container and
  upgrade path so we can reconsile the 2.X and 3.X tree and simplify
  our lives.

  Some encouraging throughput numbers come out recently
  (http://nagoya.apache.org/eyebrowse/ReadMsg?listName=james-user@jakarta.apache.o+rg&msgNo=7689),
  although we recognize we need to improve outgoing performance to
  meet our internal goal of handling ASF infrastructure load levels.

Legal issues:

  None.
    
Cross-project issues:

  Noel and I have got JIRA running on ASF hardware, and we would like
  to get jira.apache.org (and some other domains while we're at it)
  setup with HTTPS.  I believe the board had approved this notion and
  that one or more persons would negotiate getting the ASF cheap or
  free server certs.

  I'm unclear how infrastructure fits into the ASF organization, and
  if/what the board's decision was on this matter.  Any guidance about
  who is responsible for this action item, and if it's something we
  could take up on our own, is appreciated.

Any problems with committers, members, etc?

  No.  We've added one committer and hope to add some more, but we are
  getting off-and-on patches from many people.

Plans and expectations for the next period?

  I would hope we can get a known Avalon container adopted and resolve
  our two branches.  That said, this isn't easy and we're working with
  the Avalon project to hopefully get this resolved.  Thanks to
  Stephen McConnell for his continued help with this.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Conference Planning PMC

[ no attachment ]

-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Security Team

[ Submitted by Mark Cox ]

Metrics:

New, valid (possible security issues), issues mailed to
security@apache.org this quarter: 11.  (2 of these were quickly
resolved as not issues)

Status:

This quarter we continued to do a poor job of responding to the
reporters of the issues; failing to track and follow up on the issues
properly when they were passed to a projects security team.  In one
case a reporter published their (minor security) issue to Bugtraq
after not hearing from the Apache security team after 30 days.

__________________________________________________________
End of agenda for the October 22, 2003 board meeting.
