
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            April 16, 2003


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10am PDT -0700 and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held by
    teleconference hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:
    
    IRC #apacheboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

    The meeting was called to order at 10:05am.


 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Greg Stein
        Bill Stoddard (arrived at 10:12am)

    Directors Absent:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Sam Ruby

    Guests:

        None

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings
 
    A. The meeting of January 22, 2003

       Not yet approved; tabled until the next meeting.
 
    B. The meeting of February 19, 2003

       Minutes are not available for approval. [Sam Ruby]
 
    C. The meeting of February 26, 2003

       Minutes are not available for approval. [Sam Ruby]
 
    D. The meeting of March 19, 2003

       Not yet approved; tabled until the next meeting.
 
 4. Officer Reports
 
    A. Chairman [Greg]
       Greg reported that he was quite pleased with the amount
       of activity, especially under Avalon.  The code base was
       being significantly cleaned up to avoid non-ASF code as
       well as "single person" code.
       
       Greg also expressed some concern that the board received no
       PMC reports.  He had hoped that PMC chairs would have remembered
       the schedule for reports.  Greg indicated that he would
       continue to send out reminders in the future.
    
    B. President [Dirk]
       No report.
    
    C. Treasurer [Chuck]
       No report.
    
    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that a steady stream of CLAs, via FAX and postal
       mail were being received. As such, his FAX machine has officially
       given up the ghost, prompting item 8-B under New Business.

 5. Committee Reports

    No reports were received.

 6. Special Orders

 7. Unfinished Business
 
    A. Brian was waiting for a check for Net Express for the
       new server he is awaiting delivery for.  Jim reported
       that Chuck was to be sending a check to Jim for him to
       co-sign.  As soon as received, Jim reported that he would
       sign the check and FedEx it to Brian.

 8. New Business
 
    A. OpenORB and Intalio.
       There was discussion regarding liability concerns regarding
       Intalio and the OpenORB codebase.  Concepts such as a "click
       through" license were discussed, but with no significant
       result. Jim reported that the following OpenORB committers
       have signed CLAs on file:

          Stephen McConnell
          Jesper Pedersen
          J. Scott Evans
          Michael Rumpf
          Shawn Boyce
          Gary Shea
          Lars KÃ¼hne
          Polar Humenn

    B. New fax machine for Jim.
       The board approved a budget not-to-exceed $300 to Jim to
       purchase a new FAX machine.
    
    C. Colocation.
       It was reported that the ASF had finalized a new colocation
       agreement with United Layer.  The ASF has a full rack and a
       great bandwidth allocation for $1500/month.

    D. Security Lists.
       There was discussion regarding the security lists in place
       for the various ASF projects.  The main concerns were the large
       number of subscribers to those lists as well as the potential
       for leaks and premature vendor "leaks".  BenL indicated that
       he would work on helping all the lists alleviate these
       concerns.

 9. Announcements

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:00 PDT -0800. The meeting was officially
    adjourned at 10:50am.


__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 16 Apr 2003 board meeting.
