
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                           December 17, 2003


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10am PST -0800. A sufficient
    attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by the chairman
    at 10:03am, at which point the meeting was called to order.  The
    meeting was held by teleconference hosted by Greg Stein and
    CollabNet.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present At Roll:

        Ken Coar
        Mark Cox
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Greg Stein
        Sam Ruby

    Directors Absent At Roll:

        Jim Jagielski
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ben Laurie

    Guests:

        Chuck Murcko (Treasurer)
	Davanum Srinivas (joined at 10:11am)

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of February 26, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Sam Ruby]
       
    B. The meeting of September 17, 2003

       See board_minutes_2003_09_17.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board.

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. The meeting of October 22, 2003

       See board_minutes_2003_10_22.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board.

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. The meeting of November 16, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Brian Behlendorf]


 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg reported that the PMCs seem more active than they
       were 6-12 months ago and appear to be on track and moving
       in the right direction.  The Jakarta PMC has been especially 
       busy in the last month working on increasing their oversight.

    B. President [Dirk]

       Dirk reported on the oversight issues faced by the PMCs of
       projects that had large committer bodies.  Projects should look
       to Jakarta as an example of how to scale rather than moving to
       more top level projects.

       Dirk mentioned that the inclusion of Spam Assassin was slightly
       behind schedule.

       Dirk talked about the ongoing work on the Infrastructure,
       especially with new machines being donated.  He pointed to the
       URL http://www.apache.org/dev/proposed-machines.html for more
       information.  There is talk of having a Certificate Authority
       box, perhaps hosted with Ben Laurie, for the purposes of
       managing SSL client certificates.

       Dirk mentioned that there has been some feedback about the
       security of the current installation of Subversion which was
       being adressed.

       Dirk reported that the "root" rotation still seems to work
       well.  Account creation requests, pending CLA receipt, are
       still a pain to keep track of, but there is an effort to
       resolve this through a web-app.  Some dicussion was had at
       ApacheCon to partially solve some of this through the means of
       sourcecast.

       Leo Simons has been putting a lot of energy in a wiki
       management tool, which is being used to created per-PMC
       wikis.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]
    
       Financial reports for 4Q 2002 and 2003 YTD have been
       submitted. PayPal account has reverted to a $500/mo. withdrawal
       limit, since the credit card used to verify the account has
       expired.  Chuck is awaiting a new bank VP at Wells Fargo to
       open a lockbox account, as the old VP has resigned.  Final 2003
       financials should show an additional $700-$3500 in expenses due
       to late posting of December colo charges and pending payout of
       additional colo equipment money.  Chuck reported that no PR
       budget proposal has been received.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       No report due to Jim being absent.

 5. Special Orders

    A. Establishment of the Apache Logging Services Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to the logging of application
       behavior, for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Logging Services
       PMC", be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Logging Services PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software for
       managing the logging of application behavior, and for related
       software components, based on software licensed to the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Logging
       Services" be and hereby is created, the person holding such
       office to serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as
       the chair of the Apache Logging Services PMC, and to have
       primary responsibility for management of the projects within
       the scope of responsibility of the Apache Logging Services PMC;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Logging Services PMC:

         Scott Deboy
         Ceki G端lc端
         Jacob Kjome 
         Yoav Shapira 
         Paul Smith 
         Mark Womack

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Mr. Ceki G端lc端 be
       and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Logging Services, to serve in accordance with and subject to
       the direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Logging Services PMC be and
       hereby is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended
       to encourage open development and increased participation in
       the Apache Logging Services Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Logging Services PMC be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the log4j
       Apache Jakarta subproject; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Logging Services PMC be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and integration of the sister
       projects, namely but not exclusively, Log4Perl, Log4Net,
       Log4Cxx (c++), Log4CPlus, Log4PHP and Log4plsql, subject to the
       will and approval of the respective project owners and
       communities.

       This was passed by Unanimous Vote.

    B. Discussion: code imports directly into projects vs incubation
       (e.g. maven-wagon and ws-fx)

       A discussion was had on how codebases arrive at the ASF.  Last
       year, the Board created the Apache Incubator Project to deal
       with these incoming codebases, primary to ensure that the
       proper IP guarantees have been made, and also to ensure that
       any community arriving with the code is aware of ASF processes
       and requirements.
  
       However, there are many cases where codebases happen to have
       been elsewhere by ASF committers, which makes it much easier to
       "bring the code [into the ASF]". The Board is crafting
       guidelines for when a codebase can be directly imported and
       verified by a PMC, and when it is required to use the Incubator
       for that process. Information will be posted to
       general@incubator.apache.org when those guidelines have been
       completed.

    C. Appoint a new Director to fill Roy's vacated position

       There is currently a vacant Director position on the Board. The
       Board is going to run a poll of the Members for suggestions, before
       appointing a replacement Director. (which should happen next month)
       Brian Behlendorf agreed to take on this task.

    D. Appoint a new Jakarta PMC Chair

       This was tabled.

 6. Committee Reports

    This item was tabled until the next meeting.

 7. Unfinished Business

    No unfinished business.

 8. New Business

    No new business.
 
 9. Announcements

    No announcements.

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PDT -0700. Adjourned at
    12:15pm.

------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the December 17, 2003 board meeting.
