
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            July 16, 2003


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10am PDT -0700. A sufficient
    attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by the chairman
    at 10:05am, at which point the meeting was called to order.  The
    meeting was held by teleconference hosted by Jim Jagielski.

    IRC #apacheboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar (arrived at 10:08)
        Mark Cox
        Roy T. Fielding
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein

    Directors (expected to be) Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        none

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of February 19, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Sam Ruby]

    B. The meeting of February 26, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Sam Ruby]

    C. The meeting of May 21, 2003

       board_minutes_2003_05_21.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board
       were approved by general consent.

    D. The meeting of June 25, 2003

       board_minutes_2003_06_25.txt in cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board
       were approved by general consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]
       Greg reported that, organizationally, things are quiet within
       the ASF.  Not to say that there is not continued healthy
       discussion within the ASF, notably on members@ and licensing@,
       but that there are no items of concern.
       
       Greg was reminded that the PHP group was awaiting some sort
       of "write-up" on what needs to occur for the PHP project to
       become more inline with other ASF projects.  This was mentioned
       during some offline discussions at LinuxTag.

    B. President [Dirk]
       Dirk had nothing to report.  During the President's report, however,
       the status of the new machine, Minotaur, was discussed.  It was
       noted that it should be online is very short order; final details
       regarding physical access and the like were being completed.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]
       No report

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that both the clas.txt and members.txt files
       under foundation CVS are being updated with the received signed
       CLAs and membership applications.  He also reported that checks to
       United Layer, for co-location fees, were signed and were going
       out via postal mail.  The checks were for half of July and for
       all of August (pre-pay).

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache DB Project [Jason van Zyl]

       See Attachment A. Attachment A was approved by general consent and
       accepted into the record.

    B. Apache Incubator Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment B. Further discussion was held on the fact
       that there are still no "hard and fast" graduation procedures
       within the Incubator.  Mention was made that Tapestry was
       graduated with no one ensuring that all procedural aspects
       were followed (received and filed paperwork, etc...).  Attachment
       B was approved by general consent and accepted into the record.

    C. Apache Maven Project [Dion Gillard]

       A report was not received.

    D. Apache TCL Project [David Welton]

       See Attachment D.  Attachment D was approved by general consent and
       accepted into the record.

    E. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas]

       See Attachment E.  There was discussion regarding the dependency
       between James and 'mailets' and whether those mailets "should
       be" available via the ASF.  The main concern was regarding the
       impacts of having any ASF project being "dependent" on code that
       is "only" available via outside sources and only of a non-free
       nature.  It was agreed that this is not the case with James, but
       it is an issue which needs to be addressed.  PHP and Zend may
       be such a case.  Jim reminded the board that one main reason why
       the Apache License is written the way it is is to allow commercial
       entities to use our code/products in "whatever" way they way, and
       having ASF products be deeply dependent on non-open/non-free
       items conflicts with this desire. Attachment E was approved by
       general consent and accepted into the record.

    F. Conference Planning [Ken Coar]

       Ken reported that the CFP (Call For Papers) could go out as
       soon as today.  There was continued discussion regarding
       the veracity of Security Travel and still-not-yet-received
       speaker payments.

    G. Security Team [Ben Laurie]

       Ben reported that there was still some concern over the
       logging and tracking of security issues, as well as the
       list of ASF projects involved within the security
       team.  Discussion on whether members should sign "releases"
       was held, with the result that it did not appear required
       at present.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Discussion: PHP licensing
    
       As noted in the Chairman report, Greg had not yet had this
       discussion with the PHP Group, but would be doing so within
       the next week or so.

    B. Discussion: Spam Assassin (SA) group as an ASF project,
       license/contributor questions.  The general consent was
       that SA would be a useful addition to the ASF, and that
       the entry point for SA would be via the Incubator.  Exit
       point would like be a top-level project.  It was noted
       that the required forms and assignments would be required
       for this to commence.  There was some minor discussion
       regarding the fact that one developer is 16 years of age
       and whether he could legally signed the CLA.  It was noted
       that this is not an issue at present since it is likely
       that his parents could (co) sign for him.

 7. Unfinished Business

 8. New Business

 9. Announcements

10. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:00 PDT -0700.  Adjourned at 11:50.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache DB Project

[ received from John McNally ]

Releases

Torque did an alpha release of 3.1 in April and a couple bug fix
releases (3.0.1 and 3.0.2) in June.

OJB put up a 1.0rc3 release in May.

Problems
No problems to speak of.  Mail list activity on both subprojects
indicates forward progress and no flame wars.

News

A presentation on OJB was given at javaone
TS-3368
Applying Open Source Web Technologies Together: Struts and OJB


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The Apache Incubator Project is having the dubious honor of
"incubating" itself as well as other products.  Regarding the
Incubator Project itself, there are still basic, fundamental
issues that ideally should have been resolved before it started
accepting products/projects.  As such, things do not progress as
smoothly as anticipated.  Nevertheless, the following projects
are being (or have been) incubated as we speak:

   o AltRMI:
     A transparent Remote Procedure Call bean. 
   o FtpServer:
     A complete FTP Server based on Avalon principles. 
   o Lenya:
     An Open-Source Content Management and publishing system. It is based
     on open standards such as XML and XSLT.
   o OpenORB:
     An Open-Source CORBA framework implementation. (donation to
     ASF/Avalon and licensing issues)
   o Tapestry:
     A complete framework offering an alternative to JSP & Velocity
     scripting environments. (graduated to Jakarta)

In addition, discussion regarding the inclusion of XMLBeans into
the Incubator is progressing as well.  So the good news is that the
Incubator *is* filling a void;  the bad news is that we are still
determining the best way to do that.  A good summary of some of these
issues  was written by Nicola Ken Barozzi to general@incubator.apache.org
in Message-Id <3F0A8B31.6070906@apache.org>.  Copies can be provided
as needed.

Finally, I have noted my intention to step down as PMC Chair, for
2 main reasons: First of all, I think that it's in the best interest
in the foundation to not have "the usual people" in various
"management-type" positions. Also, as Chair, I find myself not being
as vocal as usual (or as need be) regarding Incubator issues, mostly
of a concern (unfounded, I'm sure) that coming from the Chair, it
would carry more weight than it should. I have suggested Nicola
as replacement.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache TCL Project

Not much to report since our last comunique`. We finally have another
active committer as an ASF member, Damon Courtney, which we hope will
help to bridge the Apache and Tcl comunities.

Projects:

Rivet - is alive and well, and continues to add users and
functionality, while retaining its compact, fast and light nature.

WebSH - mature.  Lots of downloads, and few problem reports -
apparently it works quite well!

mod_tcl - not a lot of progress evident, but it also is downloaded
lots, so I guess it works pretty well.

NeoWebScript and mod_dtcl have finally been 'archived', and their
users pointed towards Rivet.  This has had the added benefit of
eliminating mod_dtcl from the tcl.apache.org web site.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache James Project

Since becoming a TLP this past winter, the James community continues to
grow.  We are publishing point releases regularly, had two nice articles
on IBM developerWorks, had a new committer join us, completed
infrastructure migration to TLP, and had our most active committer
become an ASF member!

James current stable release is 2.1.3 with an alpha release of 2.2.  The
2.2 release branch incorporates some more useful features that have
languished in the experimental 3.x branch for some time.  This trend of
migrating new functionality from 3.x to 2.x will continue, and
eventually I expect the 3.x branch shift to be mainly the migration to
the new Avalon release.  We are currently discussing an improved site
and documentation creation process and separating the mailet API into an
independent release cycle.

James has a sister site as a depot for mailets, namely www.mailet.org.
Danny Angus, a committer and PMC member of James, maintains it.  The PMC
had discussed creating a separate CVS repository to hold related tools,
but we believe the mailet.org site is a suitable repository for mailets
and James-related tools as it avoids licensing and
committer-proliferation issues.  We would be interested if the board
feels this is a good approach for Apache project-related tools.

We have no other issues to bring to the board.  Thanks to infrastructure
for helping complete our migration to TLP, kudos for Noel Bergman for
becoming an ASF member, and welcome Vicenzo Gianferrari Pini as a new
James (and ASF) committer.


__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 16 July 2003 board meeting.
