
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                          November 16, 2003


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 7:32PM PDT -0700.  A sufficient
    attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by the chairman
    at 7:32pm, at which point the meeting was called to order.  The
    meeting was held at a conference room at the Alexis Park hotel
    in Las Vegas, site of the concurrent ApacheCon conference.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present At Roll:

        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Mark Cox
        Roy Fielding
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Ben Laurie
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein

    Directors Absent At Roll:

        Jim Jagielski

    Guests:

        Chuck Murcko (who joined later via conference call)
        Tina Greene from Security Travel (conference planner) (joined later)
	Shane Caraveo (attending as an ASF member)
	Geir Magnusson (wants to talk about TCK license and Geronimo)
	Brian Fitzpatrick (fundraising)

 3. Minutes and supplements from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of February 26, 2003

       Minutes are not yet available for approval. [Sam Ruby]

    B. The meeting of September 17, 2003

       CVS - board:/board_minutes_2003_09_17.txt    [Jim Jagielski]
       Not read yet, so unapproved.

    C. The meeting of October 22, 2003

       CVS - board:/board_minutes_2003_10_22.txt    [Jim Jagielski]
       Not read yet, so unapproved.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Defaulted to presentation given at the Members' meeting earlier
       that night.

    B. President [Dirk]

       Defaulted to presentation given at the Members' meeting earlier
       that night.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

       A repeat of the report from the Member's Meeting:

       Chuck reports that the foundation has just over $100,000 in its
       accounts at present, down from $115,000 one year ago. This decline
       is due primarily to the fact that the Foundation began to assume
       its own hardware and colocation costs this year. We now have
       contributions by PayPal as well as by check, which together have
       offset approximately 25% of the Foundation's year-to-date
       operating costs. It is unknown whether this percentage will
       increase next year.

       ASF continues to maintain a royalty relationship with Jinx Hackwear,
       but this has not produced any appreciable income to date.

       ASF fundraising has been limited so far to installing the PayPal
       link on the Foundation's Contributions web page. Proposals for
       increased visibility for fundraising activities on the
       Foundation web site have not made progress, due in part
       to objections voiced by the membership during discussions on
       this issue.

       In the coming year, it will be important for the Foundation to
       be able to generate income from sources other than those
       already mentioned, in order to offset the costs of operating
       our own infrastructure, and reduce the burden of support on those
       members who contribute goods and services. Additional income
       will be needed if we choose to undertake activities such as
       increased public relations activity, or participation in
       standards groups.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       A repeat of the report from the Member's Meeting:

       Jim reports that the ASF is receiving a steady stream 
       of CLAs, thanks mostly to the Spam Assassin "donation" and
       the Geronimo development effort. The present method of
       handling CLAs is admittedly non-efficient. In many
       cases the FAXes are of poor quality and hard to read.
       Plus, it places a burden on infrastructure to know
       when to create accounts and on PMCs to know when
       someone can be given commit privs. There is a SOW,
       of sorts, in infrastructure to streamline this 
       process.
      
       Occasionally, other items are received at the ASF "office,"
       such as legal letters (eg: the JBoss letter) or deliveries
       for members. Items pertaining to the ASF proper, especially
       legal issues, are brought to the full attention of the
       board, for discussion and consensus. Deliveries are
       returned to the sender, with notice of the member's
       shipping address (obtained from members.txt).

 5. Special Orders

    Pre-A. Discussion with Tina Greene about the payment of ApacheCon speakers

    Tina "came to apologize to the board for the disaster that paying the
    speakers became."

    "This is not excusing my behavior; this is expressing my sincere apology
    and trying to make amends.  I understand this reflects poorly on the
    convention and the board.  We did not get the attendance that I had hoped
    for, and we lost a lot of money" Tina reported.  When it came time to pay
    the speakers, she was lent the money and started to pay the speakers.
    Emergencies came up, and she thought more money would come in to pay certain
    other receivables.  She paid 3/4ths of them, but didn't adequately communicate
    what was going on.  This was not premeditated.  This year we're close to
    being in the black.  Everyone has now been paid, including Stas as of an
    hour ago.  Now, everyone is paid at the show.

    "I'm very sorry, the best thing I can do is continue to put on a good show."
    Now, when speakers check out of the hotel, they are given a check.
    This has nothing to do with other members of her staff.

    Brian noted that it seemed that the worst crime was lack of communication,
    and opinion that Ben agreed with.  Dirk suggested that if the
    problem was simply one of cashflow, then maybe the ASF could help.

    Tina stated that she believes there is a very strong potential for this
    show and she still believes passionately in it.  There is a lot of momentum
    in the show now, and changes in corporate climate and attitudes.

    A. Alter the Chair of the Apache Maven Project
    
       WHEREAS, the membership of the Apache Maven Project Management
       Committee (PMC) have recommended Jason van Zyl to serve as
       chairman of the Apache Maven PMC; and

       WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Apache Maven
       PMC, Dion Gillard, has stepped down from his position as Vice
       President, Apache Maven, in favor of Jason van Zyl's
       appointment to that position.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Jason van Zyl be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Maven, to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation
       until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Approved by unanimous vote.

    B. Rename Perl-Apache Project to the Apache Perl Project
    
       RESOLVED, that the Perl-Apache project shall hereafter be referred
       to as the Apache Perl project, in order to be consistent with other
       Apache projects, and the Apache Perl PMC shall initially be composed
       of the current composition of the Perl-Apache PMC.

       Motion to defer until clarity around item C is achieved, approved.

    C. Alter the Chair of the Apache Perl Project
    
       WHEREAS, the membership of the Apache Perl Project Management
       Committee (PMC) have recommended Eric Cholet to serve as
       chairman of the Apache Perl PMC; and

       WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Apache Perl
       PMC, Doug MacEachern, has stepped down from his position as Vice
       President, Apache Perl, in favor of Eric Cholet's appointment
       to that position.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Eric Cholet be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Perl, to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation
       until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Discussion: has Eric Cholet been asked if he would accept this
                   appointment?

       Motion to table until Eric is consulted, approved.

    D. Notification: In July 2003, Greg paid (out of pocket) for the
       Mirapath equipment, a total of $2187.28. Greg has requested
       that the ASF issue a reimbursement check for the amount.

       Discussion: If needed, Brian B. might be able to find the receipt.

    E. Roy T. Fielding resignation from Board of Directors

       Roy has expressed his desire to resign from the Board of Directors
       of the ASF. His written resignation was submitted and accepted.

    F. Appoint a new Director to fill Roy's vacated position

       Greg notes there is no requirement in bylaws to fill slot ASAP.
       There was discussion about appointment versus election as well
       as the potential candidates.  Brian asked if we do this as a public vote,
       and there was general discussion on this topic. Greg proposed tabling this
       and taking it to the membership. Ben nominated Brian to run this and
       Brian accepted and volunteered.  There was discussion on whether to
       use Roy's voter tool for this.  It was agreed that nominations
       would be held for 10 days.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill]

       See Attachment A

       Sam Ruby clarified ant-myrmidon removal was not a request from Peter
       Donald, but a suggestion that Peter agreed with. Ken notes they are
       "cooking with gas" in a good way.
       
       Reported accepted by general consent.

    B. Apache HTTP Server Project [Sander Striker]

       See Attachment B

       Reported accepted by general consent.

    C. Apache Perl Project [Doug MacEachern]

       See Attachment C

       There was some discussion on whether the board should revisit the
       PMC chair change. The general agreement was that we should wait to
       hear from Eric first.

       Reported accepted by general consent.

    D. Apache XML Project [Berin Lautenbach]

       See Attachment D

       Dirk noted that there were some issues with xerces-p; there's an
       ongoing discussion with how that project has no effective peer review,
       and no effective release process.  The suggestion was made that it
       should be merged into xerces-C. Roy remarked that we've always
       required three +1's for a release, whereas Dirk noted that it's a
       problem if CPAN were to point to snapshots rather than releases.

       Greg indicated that XML's question is whether they can leave release
       approval up to the PMC individuals on each project and it was noted
       that the three +1s should be committers, but don't have to be on PMC.
       This resulted in general discussion about how PMCs can be responsible
       for oversight.  Roy stated that the issue came from himself, not the
       XML PMC, suggesting that they're not conducting enough oversight.
      
       The general consensus was that oversight needs to be *active*, not
       just passive; Sam states that he can claim credibly that code is
       peer-reviewed, but not that the PMC is actively overseeing things.

       Dirk will write mail to XML PMC saying that the board understands their
       problem, will clarify what oversight means, and that the XML project has
       gotten too big and we should split it up.  And then cover the bases from every
       committer being a PMC member, to other options for oversight.

       Reported accepted by general consent.

    E. Apache Cocoon Project [Steven Noels]

       See Attachment E

       No report.

    F. Fund-raising Committee [Chuck Murcko]

       See Attachment F

       Brian Fitzpatrick came to discuss this with the board.

       There are a number of things that the FR Committee would like to do;
       There was discussion about putting a link on the front page to Jinx.
       The recommendation was putting a link that says "buy apache swag" going
       to Jinx.  They would also like to see a small section titled "support the
       ASF" on www.apache.org with information about how to contribute via
       paypal, sending a check, donating hardware, pro-bono legal work, etc...
       A "Thanks" page for companies who are supporting us would also be
       appropriate and nice to have, with a logo and short mention of the company,
       up to our discretion.
  
       The Fund-raising Committee is seeking guidance on the following items:
         The would like to see all project pages have a link to "support the ASF"
         page - Should we require it?  They needed to "hunt down" people to put a
         link to ApacheCon so the current setup isn't adequate or efficient.

         What does the ASF need the money for?
         
         Would like formal appointment of Fitz and Cliff to committee

       Ken noted that Jinx wants to send 100% of profits to us, so we should
       do this soon.  Greg reminded the Board that the Fundraising committee can
       make decisions around this. Fitz explained that we need justification for
       why we're raising money and it was noted that we have a pool of funds that
       we don't want to dive into, and real colo costs now.

       Roy stated that need a larger kitty for the defense fund.  $1M is minimum
       for a patent defense. Ken asked if we should allocate a budget for travel
       for speakers, etc? There was general agreement that it would be a good thing,
       also boosting Sally's PR budget.

       Greg moved to add Fitz, Shane, and CLiff Skolnick to the
       Fund-raising Committee and to remove Roy.  This was approved by unanimous
       consent.

       Mark noted that LinuxJewelry is saying they were donating profits, yet we
       have not heard anything nor received any donations. They're Australia based.
       It was asked that the fundraising committee look into this. This was
       assigned to Fitz to look into.

       Reported accepted by general consent.


 7. Unfinished Business

    A. Proposed 2.0 license and related CLA, software grant changes

       Roy said that he plans to put up a revised version of the license soon.
       More public review is required and if we get more serious comments, then we
       should revise again, otherwise it gets put to a vote.

       Greg brought up the "the PHP thing".  Greg volunteers to communicate with PHP
       about new ASF license and software-grant, to get to closure on this issue.

 8. New Business

    Geir brought up the topic of Geronimo and the "code similarity" letter from
    JBoss's lawyers.  He indicated that the PMC is preparing responses to the
    exhibits mentioned.  He asked if  the ASF will want to do a letter back to
    JBoss's lawyers and asked the next steps.  It was agreed that we
    should continue generating the responses, with help from Geronimo
    contributers, at which point these will be reviewed by the ASF lawyers.      
      
    Geir indicated some TCK issues.  He noted that the ASF will get a side letter
    to approve distribution and asked if he could sign the TCK agreement?
      
    Greg moved that Geir Magnusson Jr. be named VP, Java Community Process of
    the Apache Software Foundation (a more proper proposal text will be
    formulated later). This was agreed upon by unanimous vote.
      
    Board acknowledged that Ken added Rich Bowen, Shane Curcuru, and Cliff Skolnick
    to the Apachecon committee.

 9. Announcements

10. Adjournment

    Greg moves to adjourn at 21:48. This was seconded at which point
    the meeting was adjourned.



============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

From: "Conor MacNeill" <conor@cortexebusiness.com.au>
Date: Thu, 13 Nov 2003 20:42:51 +1100

o Ant 1.5.4

Ant 1.5.4 was released on August 12th, 2003

This was a minor maintenance release of the Ant 1.5 branch.
It addressed just two particular problems - the change to
the javah entry point in the latest Sun JDK release and the
Visual Age tasks. The latter, being only compatible with JDK
1.1, were included to give users of this task a working release
prior to the Ant 1.6 release which depends on JDK 1.2+

o Ant 1.6 Beta

Two betas of Ant 1.6 have been released to date. Beta 1 was released
on 30th Septamber, 2003 followed by Beta 2 on October 17. Ant 1.6
has been well received as it provides a number of new features for
simplifying and reusing build components. A short summary of the new
features is

* Delayed Task construction, Top levels tasks

* Antlib - a packaging of ant components into a library

* namespace support

* macrodef task for composing ant tasks into larger, reusable tasks

* scriptdef for building tasks from scripting languages

* presetdef for defining tasks based on a specific configuration for
  another ant task

* input management and redirection for exec and java tasks

A bucketload of other fixes and changes as described here
http://cvs.apache.org/dist/ant/v1.6beta2/

The betas have generated a lot of interesting discussion on the dev list
in particular about the operation of macrodef and namespaces. A third
beta will definitely be produced.

o Legal Issues

None. The PMC has received a request from Peter Donald through Stefan
Bodewig for the removal of the Myrmidon codebase. The PMC will consider
and I expect will go ahead and remove this module from CVS.

o PMC meeting

the PMC will shortly hold a virtual meeting to consider a few
maintenance issues. These include the composition of the PMC, moving
inactive PMC members and committers to emeritus status, etc.

As previously noted, Diane Holt has indicated that she will no longer
be able to act as a PMC member. We thank her for her many contributions
to Ant over the years.

o Community

The dev list has been very active following the 1.6 beta. The discussion
has been cooperative and healthy. Likewise the user list continues to
be very active.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache HTTP Server Project

From: Sander Striker <striker@apache.org>
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 13:01:21 -0600

* httpd

  Both Apache HTTP Server 1.3 and 2.0 have made releases the last
  quarter.  1.3 releases have been security/bug-fix releases, which
  is expected given the 1.3 tree is in maintenance mode.
  2.0 has made several releases, security related as well as normal.
  There is effort to push out the first 2.1 release, ramping up to 2.2.
  Maybe the 2.1 release will see the day of light during ApacheCon.

  On the dev list there is a discussion about the stagnation of
  development.  Solutions to this problem are being discussed in the
  thread (subject: the wheel of httpd-dev life is surely slowing down,
  solutionsplease).  There have been several speculations on the cause
  of the slow-down.  The thread is still active.

* httpd-docs

  The docs list has been slow of late, the most significant contribution
  being Kess' configure docs.  There seems to be a temporary lull in
  contributions.

* httpd-test

  The httpd-test/perl-framework infrastructure (i.e. Apache::Test) is
  being under an active development. The actual httpd tests repository
  hasn't changed much. 

* mod_python

  There have been several releases made of mod_python.  The project
  is making progress and consistently keeps doing so.  One unfortunate
  aspect is that not enough PMC members are always actively involved
  with this project, making releases somewhat harder, since votes don't
  come in quick enough.  It would be an idea to track the development
  in the mod_python area more intensively for a bit to see if there are
  new potential committers and potential PMC members are available there.

* Contributor License Agreement

  A renewed effort to get a CLA of all contributors on file has
  started.  I hope to report next quarter that we have a 100% coverage.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Perl Project

From: Stas Bekman <stas@stason.org>
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 16:25:09 -0800

* Releases

mod_perl 1.29 was released on October 13. It is a security
release that patches around a security issue introduced
by the recently released Perl 5.8.1.

The mod_perl 1.x is a maintenance track designed to work
with httpd 1.3.x.

mod_perl-1.99_10 was released on September 29 with a
great deal of new features and bug fixes. The committers
believe that this release is one of the last milestones before
the long awaited 2.0 release.

The mod_perl 1.99 series is a development track designed
to become mod_perl 2.0; it works with httpd 2.0.x.

Apache::Test 1.04 was released on September 29, and 1.05
was released on October 24. Apache::Test provides a
framework which allows module writers to write test
suites than can query a running mod_perl enabled server.
It is used by mod_perl, httpd and several third party
applications.

* Development

Development on mod_perl 2.0 and Apache::Test is moving
at a healthy pace. The collaboration with Perl developers,
much needed since mod_perl is quite tied to Perl's
internals, has been excellent. mod_perl developers have
expressed the wish that their relationship with httpd-dev
evolve in the same direction.

* Users

As always the mod_perl user list is thriving. Usage is
growing steadily, with 1.6M or 4.7M sites depending on
which survey you look at.

* PMC

Philippe Chiasson was unanimously voted in as a new
PMC member on October 14.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache XML Project

General Comments
================

Things have been relatively quiet on the broader project front. The
sub-projects are all going well, and the XMLBeans effort is now fully
into the incubation process.

xml.apache.org has now moved all sub-projects to using the ASF mirroring
system, and a consolodated download page has been created for all files
in the over-arching project. A fantastic effort from all concerned.

PMC
===

Membership

On the PMC membership front, Ilene Seelemann stepped down from the PMC
for personal reasons, and Brian Minchau stepped in as the replacement
Xalan representative. Erwin van der Koogh was also voted in to become
the replacement xml-security representative after Christian stepped down.

Oversight

Dirk recently raised the question of oversite of the Xerces-P
sub-project, particularly around releases of code. There is a feeling
that this is too much of a one man shop / no peer review/oversight or
peer-reviewed releases. Given that it is a thin layer on C++ we may
simply tie it in with xerces-c for the real releases. However this is
still under discussion.

As an input to this discussion, the PMC would like to understand the
board's position on the requirement of an umbrella PMC to vote on all
sub-project code-releases. Currently the XML PMC does not do this - we
rely on individual PMC members within each sub-project to ensure
appropriate processes are being followed.


Issues needing attention:
=========================

Legal

In the August report, we sought the endorsement of the board for the
sending of e-mails to submit notification of export of cryptographic
code for the xml-security Java and C++ libraries.

This was discussed, but no final conclusion was indicated on board@.

The e-mails below are proposed, and it is suggested (subject to board
approval) that these come from Berin Lautenbach as the chair of the XML
PMC.

We would also like to understand whether it is permissable (given recent
discussions between Ben Laurie and the FreeBSD folk) to release compiled
versions of the libraries.


EMAIL 1 - Java Code

To crypt@bis.doc.gov, enc@ncsc.mil, enc@ncsc.mil
Subject TSU NOTIFICATION


SUBMISSION TYPE: TSU
SUBMITTED BY: Berin Lautenbach
SUBMITTED FOR: Apache Software Foundation
POINT OF CONTACT: Apache's XML Security Project
PHONE and/or FAX: security-dev@xml.apache.org
MANUFACTURER: N/A
PRODUCT NAME/MODEL #: XML-Security-J Library
ECCN: 5D002

NOTIFICATION:
Web site - http://xml.apache.org/security/Java
CVS repository - http://cvs.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/xml-security/src/
(When Released) http://www.apache.org/dist/xml/security/java-library/

NOTE: Current downloadable release code does not contain the new
      XML-Encryption code, only digital signature code. 
      See CVS repository for new code.


EMAIL 2 - C++ Code

To crypt@bis.doc.gov, enc@ncsc.mil, enc@ncsc.mil
Subject TSU NOTIFICATION


SUBMISSION TYPE: TSU
SUBMITTED BY: Berin Lautenbach
SUBMITTED FOR: Apache Software Foundation
POINT OF CONTACT: Apache's XML Security Project
PHONE and/or FAX: security-dev@xml.apache.org
MANUFACTURER: N/A
PRODUCT NAME/MODEL #: XML-Security-C Library
ECCN: 5D002

NOTIFICATION:
Web site - http://xml.apache.org/security/c
CVS Repository - http://cvs.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/xml-security/c/src/
Download directory - http://www.apache.org/dist/xml/security/c-library/

NOTE: Current downloadable release code does not contain the new
      XML-Encryption code, only digital signature code. 
      See CVS repository for new code.


Axkit
=====

The cvs repository has been temporaily branched to allow for some
exploritory development into a new pipeline mechanism which will allow
for seamless incremental caching, cacheable logic sheets, automatic SAX
chaining and an easier pipeline extension mechanism. Since this work is
likely to change a number of the internal API's, it's been kept separate
from the core until the full impact of it can be accessed. Some fairly
intensive design sessions occured in the group in order to try and find
ways to support things such as SOAP and DAV more simply at the pipeline
level, and this work is expected to come to fruition as part of the new
pipeline design.

An initial port to Apache2 has been started with some success, but isn't
in a releasable state at the moment. This is currently on hold while we
decide whether we want the new pipeline code in for 2.0, so we can then
port it forwards.

A number of UTF-8 conversion bugs have been fixed in the core. These
manifested in users seeing Latin-1 characters output, while the encoding
declaration said UTF-8.

Work on adding a number of new transformation languages has started and
should be released soon, concerning mostly STX and TT2. The XSP engine
has been enhanced with XSLT-style interpolated attribute value templates.

Batik
=====

Implementation of the Batik distribution miroring. Nightly builds are in
place as well as release signing.

Large number of bug fixes. The team thinks SVG is now the only SVG
implementation we know of which passes all the W3C Test Suite tests,
excluding declarative animation.

The team is planning a 1.5.1 release after ApacheCon.

Commons
=======

We have released a beta of our popular Resolver component, and hope to
have a full 1.1 release out in time for version-matching with Ant which
points its users to the Resolver for optional tasks.

We also have the start of a plan in place to regularlize the version
numbering and releases of our external xml-apis.jar component. We hope
we can get the Xalan and Xerces teams to help us ship JAXP-TCK passed
versions of xml-apis.jar that can then be used across many ASF projects
that deal with XML.

 -- ShaneCurcuru

FOP
===

We were finally able to freeze our maintenance branch so we can
concentrate on working on the redesign. As we have very few active
people in the Java department (that's different with support) progress
is slow. At least, we are starting to get feedback and even patches for
the redesign so we are on a good course in spite of the circumstances.

 -- Jeremias Maerki

Forrest
=======

Forrest-0.5 was released in mid-September. Work on version 0.6 has so
far been focussed on re-organising the build process to be more
efficient. A new version of the forrestbot has begun. We continue to
update our version of Cocoon to stay just off the bleeding edge. This
has been useful for both projects. Progress on Forrest-0.6 has slowed a
little and some of the main committers must be occupied by other things.
The last report noted that all Cocoon committers are now Forrest
committers, but we have only seen one or two. There is also one new
Forrest committer. Some of the users seem to be de-lurking on the
mailing list, which is a good sign. No known license issues.

Xalan-C ++
==========

There were no new releases, so there was no functional change, however
Xalan-C++ did change its distribution to use the mirrors sites (see
http://xml.apache.org/mirrors.cgi or
http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/xml/xalan-c).

 -- Brian Minchau

Xalan-J/XSLTC
=============

Xalan-J 2.5.2 was released in late October 2003. The changes were:

    * bug fixes (see http://xml.apache.org/xalan-j/readme.html)
    * downloading of Xalan-J moved to the various mirror sites around
      the world (see http://xml.apache.org/mirrors.cgi or
      http://xml.apache.org/xalan-j/downloads.html ) which is also what
      the other Apache projects did. 

Unrelated to the 2.5.2 release, development work was started on the
xslt20-compiled branch to support XSLT 2.0 and Xpath 2.0 (both drafts)
with XSLTC.

 -- Brian Minchau

Xerces-C++
==========

Xerces-C has 2 new committers. There have been many bug fixes and
considerable work is going into serializable grammars, stateless
grammars, PSVI and schema component model. The new memory management
scheme is now stable and we think the memory leaks have all been
plugged. Entity resolver support has now been enhanced. We hope to
release this year.

Xerces-J
========

In the last couple of months, considerable progress has been made in
tracking the DOM level 3 Core and Load/Save specifications. Our
XInclude implementation has also become considerably more correct and
complete. A new release will likely occur some time this month, which
will highlight these changes along with some work on performance.

Xerces-P
========

The Xerces-P project made a number of bug fix releases on the 2.3.0
stable release (2.3.0-2, -3, and -4). The main focus was smoothing out
the initial support for Windows and Mac OS X, and general project cleanup.

There is also now a win32 binary available for the project.

Also, the project switched over to SVN for maintain the source code, and
the project WWW site.

The project WWW page is now up-to-date, but has not yet migrated over to
using Forrest.

 -- Jason Stewart

Xindice
=======

No particular progress in Xindice land. Still waiting to find time in
fixing documentation and packaging a release, but both the user and dev
lists have little or no traffic, and committers seem to be busy
elsewhere. A careful consideration about the future of this project
should be carried on: Xindice is widely used, yet it seems unable to
attract a stable and healthy developer community.

XML-Security
============

The XML-Security subproject has continued work on implementations of the
XML-Encryption standard. An alpha is nearly ready for public release for
the C++ library. Some work has also been done on the Java library, but
the pace here is slower.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Cocoon Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Fund-raising Committee

There has been no activity by the fundraising committee in the last
two months. A meeting of the committee at the Conference has been
discussed for Sunday 11/16.

__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the November 16, 2003 board meeting.
