                   The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                           April 11, 2018


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:30am (US Pacific) and began at 10:37
    when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the Chairman. The meeting was held via videoconference.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Rich Bowen
        Shane Curcuru
        Bertrand Delacretaz
        Isabel Drost-Fromm
        Ted Dunning
        Brett Porter
        Roman Shaposhnik (joined late)
        Phil Steitz
        Mark Thomas (joined late)


 3. Schedule

    10:30 - 12:30 Executive Session

      Items: 
       -  Informal discussion of priorities 
       -  Officer Appointments

 4. Discussion Items

    A. Informal discussion of priorities

        The goal of this session was to make sure that issues important to
        different members of the board get our collective attention in the near
        term.  Each board member provided one or more items for consideration.
        We did not make any decisions or discuss any of these items in detail.
        We agreed that substantive discussion and decision-making should happen
        on ASF lists and/or regularly scheduled ASF Board meetings.  Here is a
        summary of items mentioned by individuals.  All items were agreed to be
        important and in many cases, board members referred back to items
        already raised.

        Ted:      Fundraising strategy, direction and operations

        Rich:     Providing better support for volunteers involved in community
                  development. We keep repeating that we want things to be
                  volunteer-led, volunteer-driven, but more enablement support is
                  needed.  Running small events and attending others requires some
                  financial support that we should consider providing from the
                  foundation.

        Shane:    Keeping communication focused, getting to decisions and documenting
                  what the decisions are.

        Betrand:  Finding the right balance between paid and volunteer resources.  
                  Refining and settling on the model for how volunteer officers are
                  going to manage paid resources. 

        Phil:     Getting a clear delineation of what is policy, what is best practice,
                  what is required at the ASF.  
                  Information transparency - balancing privacy and confidentiality
                  needs with the need to provide members access to foundation data,
                  decision-making and agreements

        Brett:    Focus on volunteer and PMC enablement.
                  Long-term plan for executive leadership.
                  Need to get to consensus on where the need is for paid assistance and
                  what the options are in each case.
                  Keeping and enhancing our culture.
                  Getting out of negativity.

        Isabel:   Finding out earlier and preparing better for changes in volunteer roles.
                  Enablement and community involvment
                  Getting the right messages out, the right stories told, to improve 
                  acculturation of new volunteers and communities at the ASF

        Roman:    Agree with all points above, esp. policy definition, paid vs unpaid
                  roles, enablement.

        Mark:     Agree with all points above.  On acculturation, consider ways to get
                  "Success at Apache" or similar material disseminated to podlings in
                  incubation. 

        We concluded with a brief discussion on how / when to run votes at
        Board meetings and how to make sure that all decisions and outcomes of
        discussion items get either captured direcly in the minutes or people
        take actions to publish or update relevant documents.   


 5. Executive Session

    A. Officer appointments
       
       We agreed to ask all current officers to continue to serve.  We appointed Shane as Vice Chair.
    
 6. New Business

 7. Announcements

 8. Adjournment

    Adjourned at 11:32AM (Pacific)
    

============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Location Details

Meeting:


https://<redacted>/


------------------------------------------------------
End of agenda for the April 11, 2018 board meeting.
