                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                           January 17, 2007


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the Chair at 10:06.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Guests:

        Doug Cutting
        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Brett Porter

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of November 15, 2006

       See: board_minutes_2006_11_15.txt

       Minutes of the meeting of November 15, 2006 were approved by
       General Consent.

    B. The meeting of December 20, 2006

       See: board_minutes_2006_12_20.txt

       Minutes of the meeting of December 20, 2006 were approved by
       General Consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg had nothing to report at this time.

    B. President [Sander]

       Reiterating what was in a Happy New Year email sent
       to the committership.  And one correction that was pointed
       out on the number of promotions to TLP this year.  We have
       had a year full of interesting events and amazing accomplishments.

       Over 2006, nine projects became Top Level Projects (TLP):
       Apache Cayenne, Apache Harmony, Apache Hivemind, Apache MINA,
       Apache Open For Business, Apache Tapestry, Apache Velocity,
       Apache Shale and Apache Tiles.  This brings the grand total to
       forty-five.
         http://projects.apache.org/.

       Eighteen projects entered the Incubator, four projects
       graduated from the Incubator, and two projects were retired.
       People definitely view the ASF as an attractive place to mature
       open source software projects.

       Apache DS was certified as LDAP Certified v2 by The Open Group.
       Only three other implementations have received this certification;
       by CA, IBM and Novell.

       We had three ApacheCon conferences this year; in Dublin, Ireland,
       in Colombo, Sri Lanka, and in Austin, Texas, USA.

       The sponsorship program was announced at ApacheCon US, with
       two sponsors already signed up: Google and Covalent.
         http://www.apache.org/foundation/sponsorship.html

       David Reid and Rich Bowen launched the Feathercast, "an unoffical
       podcast from the world of the Apache Software Foundation".  It
       gives another insight in what your fellow ASFers are doing.
         http://www.feathercast.org/.

       I'm positive that 2007 will be great year as well.

       For Infrastructure a list of task for 2007 was proposed.  The
       thread needs to be followed up upon.  It was definitely useful
       for an inventory of things needing attention.

       Ajax has been prepared for retirement.

       A switch has a broken port.  Investigation in progress.

       Several harddrives broke down.  Replacements and spares have
       been ordered and taken into production.

       Currently under discussion at Infrastructure is the proposal
       that Jason presented, regarding consideration of Contegix being
       officially part of ASF infrastructure.

       Henri proposed weekly JIRA triaging meetings, with positive
       feedback.
       

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       We have received one more bronze sponsor since the last meeting
       and received a good faith partial payment towards that
       sponsorship. I believe the PRC is starting to sketch out logos to
       provide to the sponsors. Hopefully, we'll see more of a pickup
       now that folks are coming off vacation.

       The list of donors who donated over $100 last year was sent to
       Jim and Jon late last month and the thank yous have now all been
       physically mailed or emailed (where no physical address was
       given).  The IRS minimum is to acknowledge donations only over $250,
       but we're more on the ball this year than last, so Jim and I
       agreed we could do a larger number of thank yous - hence donors
       who gave more than $100 should receive a thank you from us.

       Current balances (as of 1/16/2007):

        Paypal             $  2,210.51 (+$    955.23)
        Checking           $ 37,956.53 (-$    922.34)
        Savings            $201,908.54 (+$    479.13)
        Total              $242,075.58 (+$    512.02)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Scanning of doc's is progressing on schedule. Will reorganize
       the 'iclas' directory soon, to avoid having it become a huge size
       (as in number of individual files in one directory). Will likely
       organize by last name. As Justin indicated, the 'ASF Donation
       Acknowledgements' have been sent out (15 via Postal Mail and 7 via
       Emailed PDFs). We have received 2 donation checks: One from Brewster
       Kahle/Mary Austin in the amount of $500 and the other from the
       American Express Giving Express (JustGive.org) program, in the amount
       of $124.14. The former was dated December 31, 2006 so we will likely
       need to send them an "Donation Ack" as well. Checks on are route to
       the drop box; the cover letters will be sent to Justin.

       We have received no correspondence requiring board attention.
       
    E. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

       The only issue to report this month is the patent license FAQ.
       Following the plan I suggested in October, I've taken the FAQ
       proposed by Doug and agreed to by Roy (which addresses the 
       concern for consistency with Roy's public statements on the topic
       while he served as ASF Chairman) and asked our counsel to review
       and advise.  Barring any legal concerns from counsel, I recommend
       posting this FAQ.  Incidentally, the question part of the FAQ is
       nearly identical to the one proposed in our September meeting;
       however, the answer no longer has the problem raised by some
       directors (that it was attempting to answer more than the  
       question).

    F. VP of JCP [Geir]
    
       In general, things continue smoothly.  We have received several 
       new TCKs for project use, including one from BEA.  This is the 
       first instance of us using a TCK for which Sun wasn't the spec 
       lead and licensor, and the process for securng the TCK was 
       vastly simpler - a simple 2 page license with no negotiations.
       License as posted to legal-internal@ and met with no concerns,
       so we accepted and gave the releated TCK to the requesting 
       projects.  A copy of the license is in SVN in the JCP section.

       In other areas, we are still negotiating with Sun regarding the 
       Java SE TCK license (also known as the "JCK").  Discussions on
       appropriate terms seem to be nearing an impasse, with the 
       current terms unacceptable to the ASF.  There still is one
       more avenue of exploration, and if unsuccessful, will need
       to escalate inside Sun, or beyond.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Beehive Project [Eddie O'Neil / Henri]

       See Attachment A

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Conferences Committee [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment B

       The written report was received late, so Ken provided a verbal
       summary of the report.

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache DB Project [Jean T. Anderson / Dirk]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Sam]

       See Attachment D

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Geronimo Project [Matt Hogstrom / Greg]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Cliff]

       See Attachment F

       Henri indicated that his worry with moving dormant codebases to the
       Incubator is whether the Incubator can be the one who guarantees
       someone is listening when a release has to be done. Sam suggested
       that the board request a clarification: dormant means no releases;
       To have a release would require reactivation. A question to
       be discussed later is what is the operational difference between
       dormant and retired.

       Henri noted that the Felix wording is a bit weird: 'Committed OSGi
       source code which is AL 2.0'. Sounds like we're committing other
       people's source code - and asked if we were worried about this?
       Sam offered this analogy: one of the purposes of the CC licenses is
       to spell out the conditions under which you never need to ask
       permission.  Our repositories certainly contain other people's
       binaries -- when they are under a compatible license. Sam said that
       he was not overly concerned about our repositories containing other
       peoples source, but what he is concerned about is whether or not we
       are following the terms of the license for that source.

       The board clearly agreed that the Heraldry podling does not sound 
       healthy or "good". However, the board did not see any reason to
       take direct action at this time: it noted that Heraldry was
       self-aware enough to recognize the issues. Greg did note that one
       third party said that Heraldry is not a community, but a "dumping
       ground" for corporate interests and noted that, if true, that might
       explain what is being observed.

       Roller graduation was discussed. It was reported that the Wiki
       migration is the current issue blocking graduation.
           
       Jim noted his concern about Graffito and the apparent lack  of any
       activity combined with it's length of term within incubation. Sander
       agreed and noted that it is reassuring that there is a discussion
       within the podling taking place about the future of the project.
       Sander suggested that they provide a followup report for next month.
               
       Justin asked that, regarding Lucene.Net, what is 'Highlighter.Net'
       and 'Snowball.Net'? It was reported that these are optional
       packages in Lucene that were ported to .NET.

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas / Jim]

       See Attachment G

       Justin asked if anyone on the board was familiar enough to watch JAMES?
       Jim noted that, according to the site, Noel is an active committer, and
       suggested that the board ask him. Justin agreed to contact Noel as
       well as sit in on the lists.

       Approved by General Consent.

    H. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl / Sander]

       See Attachment H

       Justin asked if the board should let PRC and Infrastructure
       teams handle items #1 and #2 from the Maven report. Jim indicated
       that they should, and he would follow up.

       Approved by General Consent.

    I. Apache MINA Project [Trustin Lee / Justin]

       See Attachment I

       Henri was confused regarding the need for an iCLA in order for
       someone to publish performance results. The answer was that
       these results are published on the Project Wiki and in
       order to have write access on it, an iCLA is needed.

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache MyFaces Project [Manfred Geiler / Justin]

       See Attachment J

       Justin asked if the ASF-wide release guidelines would be helpful;
       the board concurred and suggested that PMCs be reminded of the
       common aspects of releases. Sander reminded the board that the
       usage of the 'Tomahawk; name was discouraged and discussed as
       recently as November on the MyFaces private list. Sander was to
       forward the thread to the board list.

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Henri]

       See Attachment K

       Sam noted, with approval, that we are now receiving board
       reports from the team.
 
       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache Shale Project [Craig R. McClanahan / Ken]

       See Attachment L

       Henri noted that the Tiles module depending on an unreleased Tiles
       and having a different level of quality to the rest of the release
       bothered him personally, but did not think that board-wise it was
       something we should be bothered by.

       Justin asked which PMC is voting on the Struts Tiles release?  (Shale?
       Struts?  Tiles?) In other words, what's the dependency graph? This
       was to be discovered and reported back to the board. Justin also
       noted, in response to their report, that CLAs can be submitted via email
       now.

       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Cliff]

       See Attachment M

       Approved by General Consent.

    N. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Greg]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent.

    O. Apache TCL Project [David N. Welton / Sam]

       See Attachment O

       [ no report received ]

       David to submit a report in February.

    P. Apache Velocity Project [Henning Schmiedehausen / Sander]

       See Attachment P

       Approved by General Consent.

    Q. Apache Tiles Project [Greg Reddin / Jim]

       See Attachment Q

       Approved by General Consent.

    R. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Dirk]

       See Attachment R

       [ no report received ]

       Martin to submit a report in February.

    S. Apache APR Project [Garrett Rooney / Dirk]

       See Attachment S

       Approved by General Consent.

    T. Apache Harmony Project [Geir Magnusson Jr. / Sander]

       See Attachment T

       [ no report received ]

       Geir to submit a report in February.

    U. Apache Labs Project [Stefano Mazzocchi / Jim]

       See Attachment U

       Approved by General Consent.

    V. Apache OFBiz Project [David E. Jones / Ken]

       See Attachment V

       Justin noted in their report their reference to "publicize their
       'hackathon'" and was curious if they knew about AC EU Hackathon?
       Ken was to make sure that the OFBiz project was aware of the
       AC hackathon and to let them know that their own hackthon was
       OK.

       Greg expressed some concern regarding the external SVN repository
       Sander said that if it is closed for development and only historical,
       he saw no real issue, but it would be good to record history at the
       ASF nevertheless. Sander also noted that, with respect to other infra
       resources, currently hosted by Contegix, they would be "lumped" in with
       the proposal from Maven.

       Approved by General Consent.

    W. Apache Cayenne Project [Andrus Adamchik / Greg]

       See Attachment W

       Approved by General Consent.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Establish the Apache ActiveMQ Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's
       purpose to establish a Project Management Committee charged
       with the creation and maintenance of open-source software
       implementing a distributed messaging system, for distribution
       at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache ActiveMQ Project",
       be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache ActiveMQ Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of open-source
       software and documentation for a distributed messaging system,
       based on software licensed to the Foundation; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, ActiveMQ" be and
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache ActiveMQ Project, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache ActiveMQ Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache ActiveMQ Project:

           * Alan Cabrera <adc@toolazydogs.com>
           * Hiram Chirino <hiram@hiramchirino.com>
           * Rob Davies <rajdavies@gmail.com>
           * Matt Hogstrom <matt@hogstrom.org>
           * David Jencks <david_jencks@yahoo.com>
           * Brian McCallister <brianm@apache.org>
           * Aaron Mulder <ammulder@alumni.princeton.edu>
           * Guillaume Nodet <guillaume.nodet@worldonline.fr>
           * John Sisson <jrsisson@gmail.com>
           * Bruce Snyder <bruce.snyder@gmail.com>
           * James Strachan <james.strachan@gmail.com>
           * Dain Sundstrom <dain@iq80.com>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Brian McCallister
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, ActiveMQ, to
       serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
       Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,
       or until a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache ActiveMQ Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       ActiveMQ Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache ActiveMQ Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Apache
       Incubator ActiveMQ podling; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache
       Incubator ActiveMQ podling encumbered upon the Apache Incubator
       PMC are hereafter discharged.

       Special Order 6A, Establish the Apache ActiveMQ Project, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

    B. Establishing the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish an ASF Board Committee
       charged with promoting and facilitating attendance at events
       which are of interest to ASF projects by individuals within the
       ASF community at-large whom would otherwise not be able to
       attend due to financial constraints.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that an ASF Board Committee,
       known as the "Apache Travel Assistance Team", be and hereby is
       established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Travel Assistance Team be and hereby
       is responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to
       provide assistance, including but not limited to financial
       support, to individuals to attend events, as approved by the
       Apache Travel Assistance Team, that are consistent with the
       ASF's mission to produce open-source software; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski shall serve at the direction of
       the Board of Directors as the chair of the Apache Travel
       Assistance Team and have primary responsibility for managing
       the Apache Travel Assistance Team; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the members of the Apache
       Travel Assistance Team:

           * Ross Gardler <rgardler@apache.org>
           * Jim Jagielski <jim@apache.org>
           * Stefano Mazzocchi <stefano@apache.org>
           * Davanum Srinivas <dims@apache.org>

       There was discussion regarding whether the committee should be
       a board committee, a president's committee or some other entity.
       It was agreed that since it was spending ASF funds and would
       be making decisions that could be somewhat "controversial" (who
       was approved and who was not), a board committee made the most
       sense.

       Special Order 6B, Establishing the Apache Travel Assistance Committee,
       was approved by Unanimous Vote.

 7. Discussion Items

    A. Patent clause FAQ

       The status of the Patent Clase FAQ was discussed, specifically
       the entry below:

         Q: If I own a patent and contribute to a project, and, at the time
         my contribution is included in the project, none of my patent's
         claims are subject to Apache's Grant of Patent License, is there a
         way any of that patent's claims would later become subject to the
         Grant of Patent License solely due to subsequent contributions by
         other parties who are not licensees of that patent.

        A. No.

       The board expressed no concern with the above clarification.
       Cliff was to pass this along to our lawyers for comments and
       feedback.

 8. Review Outstanding Action Items

 9. Unfinished Business

    None

10. New Business

    None

11. Announcements

    None

12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at
    11:30.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache Beehive Project

Summary
=======
- Released Beehive 1.0.2 which is a bug fix release for NetUI and Controls
- This quarter saw a small but surprising increase in new feature
proposals accompanied with patches and discussion on the dev list
- Work has stalled on WSM which is now being built in the Axis2
community as part of JAX-WS

Community
========
The community is generally quiet; however, there was a nice increase
in traffic on user@.  Adding new committers continues to be a
challenge, though there were a couple of patches this quarter that
might put contributors on the path to committership.

Releases
=======
- Beehive 1.0.2 released.  This is also the first release to be
simultaneously released as both archives and Maven2 artifacts.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Conferences Project

The contract with Stone Circle Productions, Charel Morris' company,
has been signed.  The process took considerably longer than
anticipated by both sides due to the desire to obtain repeated legal
review of proposed changes.  The end result was satisfactory both to
the concom and SCP, and constracts SCP to run our conferences for the
next three years, with semi-automatic renewal.

One of the perpetual issues with ApacheCon has to do with the Web site
and registration.  In 2000 and 2001 the ASF's systems ran the entire
system, but new procedures were needed when we took on Security Travel
as the production company -- and even more procedures when S&SV
produced ApacheCon Europe 2005 and 2006.  All data relating to the
conference belong contractually to the ASF, but actually obtaining
them when they aren't resident on our systems has been problematic.
We experimented with a totally hands-off approach with S&SV, letting
them handle all aspects of the site, and even fewer data were made
accessible -- and there were accountability problems.  For ApacheCon
NA 2006 and Europe 2007 we have reverted to handling the content and
scheduling on our site, and having only the registration (i.e., the
monetary aspect) handled externally.  There are still some problems
with this, and there is not universal agreement that it's the way to
go.  Just in case it continues, I have requested a 'lab' to develop a
standard API for our vendors to use to communicate with the ApacheCon
database, so the mechanism need not be continually tweaked (and made
more fragile).

Planning for the ApacheCon conferences in Europe and the United States
in 2007 is proceeding well.  The call for participation for the
European conference, which will be held in Amsterdam at the beginning
of May, closed on Tuesday night (16 January 2007).  The close was
delayed a few days due to technical problems which were interfering
with submitters being able to log onto the site.  The scheduling
meeting for the conference will be held 20-21 January 2007 in
Atlanta.  Over 250 submissions have been received.  Due to the smaller
numbr of concurrent tracks, selection criteria will need to be
aggressive.

The U.S. conference this year is planned for Atlanta, Georgia,
in mid-November, before the U.S. Thanksgiving Day holiday.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache DB Project

It was a busy quarter for the DB Project. We added seven
committers, released two products, and one of the projects
we sponsored in the Incubator graduated. By now most DB
subprojects have updated source code headers to comply with
the new policy at www.apache.org/legal/src-headers.html,
and Derby complied with the cryptographic requirements
outlined at www.apache.org/dev/crypto.html.

New committers:
 * Army Brown (Derby)
 * Greg Monroe (Torque)
 * Fernanda Pizzorno (Derby)
 * Mamta Satoor (Derby)
 * Laura Stewart (Derby)
 * Myrna van Lunteren (Derby)
 * Kristian Waagan (Derby)

Releases:
 * Derby 10.2.2.0
 * Torque 3.3-RC1

Incubator:
 * Cayenne graduated into a top level project

These projects have completed source code header updates:
 * DdlUtils
 * Derby
 * JDO
 * Torque

Follow up from October Board report:
Brian McCallister's 10/17/2006 DB report to the Board
mentioned the "chicken and egg problem" with the Derby
10.2.1.6 release. In short, code implementing JDBC 4
features could not be released in binary form until
after Java SE 6 was released, so 10.2.1.6 included only
source with instructions on how to build it. Java SE 6
was released in December and Derby subsequently released
10.2.2.0, which includes the compiled JDBC 4 apis along
with some bug fixes.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

New Committers
==============

We had a couple new committers join us: Christine Koppelt (ckoppelt) and
Stefan Seelmann.

Community
=========

Just recently MINA graduated to a TLP leaving the Directory TLP which it
was a subproject of.  We had some fears that this would result
in the loss of some activity but surprisingly it has not.  The
activity is actually increasing in Directory proper.

New Projects
============

With the flux of people interested in LDAP Studio and having 3-4
committers on it now we decided to take it out of our sandbox.

Triplesec came to Apache Directory through the IP clearance process:

http://incubator.apache.org/ip-clearance/directory-triplesec.html

Another code base was brought in worth mentioning yet was not really
made into a separate project but integrated straight into ApacheDS
called mitosis for ApacheDS Multi Master replication:

http://incubator.apache.org/ip-clearance/directory-mitosis.html

Releases
========

At ApacheCon US 06 we released 1.0 of ApacheDS which was certified by
the OpenGroup.  We are preparing the first bug fix release for the end
of this month.

Other Noteworthy Matters
========================

CA is offering to contribute JXPlorer, an LDAP GUI client,
(http://www.jxplorer.org/) but the PMC decided to reject it since the
project is dead with little or no community behind it at this point.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

Summary -
All in all it was fairly quiet at the end of the year.  The project
team has been focusing on two releases.  1.2-beta was released that
includes integration of three projects from the incubator (OpenEJB,
Yoko and OpenJPA).  2.0-M1 was released that includes many of the new
Java EE 5.0 technologies.  The project is working towards a goal of
completing a certified server in time for Java One.  2.0-M1 also
pulled in CXF from the Incubator.

Collaboration with several other projects in Apache is going on which
includes Axis 2, OpenJPA, OpenEJB, CXF and Yoko.  There has been some
mention about OSGi which would include Felix but that work hasn't
really taken off yet.

Here are the details.

- Releases
1.2-beta was released in December
2.0-M1 was released in December
2.0-M2 is targetted for release at the end of January of this year

- JUGs and Conferences
JUGs Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Boulder and Dallas in November
Javapolis in December
Open Source Conference in Tokyo in December

- Certifications
None at this time

- Subprojects

* DayTrader
Released a performance report on Geronimo in October.  DayTrader was
the benchmark sample used for comparisons.  The report can be found at
http://people.apache.org/~hogstrom/Geronimo-1.1.1-PerformanceReport.pdf

* DevTools
1.2.0 was released in November.  This included the ability to fully
edit Geronimo.xml plans.

* XBean
Version 2.8 was released in early January

* Specifications
Specifications were reorganized after several months of debate.
Rather than having a single version for the specifications each one
is packaged separately.  Dain Sundstrom volunteered to help keep the
releases and organization going.

* Other Work
WADI clustering has been moving forward
GCache has continued development but there has not been a lot of
activity on the list.
New JMX console was added to Geronimo 1.2
JNDI / Classloader viewer was added by a new community member.
Really neat stuff.

- Community
* New committers
None

* PMC additions
Anita Kulshreshtha
Vamsavardhana Reddy


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

More and more ASF Members continue to join the Incubator PMC to help
shephard projects through the process.  ActiveMQ is the latest of a recent
string of ASF Projects asking to go TLP.  Solr requested graduation to the
Lucene project.  Synapse graduated to the WS project.

Agila has been placed into a dormancy status, with only the retirement of
the mailing lists outstanding
(http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-1056).  AltRMI is also being
placed in a dormant status.  Others are likely to follow.  We may suggest
that other TLPs that have dormant codebases move them to a "dormant/" (or
some such) area of the Incubator, so that people can see the existance of
the code, and it can be revived in-place if a community forms around it.

===============================================

Incubator monthly reports for January 2007

The following projects failed to report on time:
 * Ivy
 * JuiCE
 * Qpid

----

=== Agila ===

Agila was retired this quarter with only the retirement of the mailing lists
outstanding (http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-1056).

----

=== CXF ===
Project name - CXF

Description - SOA enabling framework, web services toolkit

Date of entry - August, 2006

Top three items to resolve -
 1. Diversity - Active commiters are 90% IONA people
 2. Growth of community - related to diversity, we have not yet had the
opportunity to add additional commiters.   The traffic on the dev list is
"steady."   With milestone 1 out, we are beginning to attract users.
Traffic on the user list is now growing.
 3. Not enough documentation or work occuring on the wiki.


Community aspects:
  * Lots of discussions about various topics (Reliable Messaging, tooling,
etc...) occuring on the dev list.
  * Released milestone 1 in December.   A bit late, but more feature were
added and stability and number of bugs have been good.
  * Working with the Yoko folks about transitioning to CXF (from ObjectWeb
Celtix)
  * Started working with the Geronimo folks to integrate with them.
  * Created a eclipse plugin/bundle of our code for the Eclipse STP project
for them to integrate our code.

Code aspects:
  * Milestone 1 released, working on setting features for the next RC.
(hopefully around March)
  * Started discussing some architectural changes, especially in regard to
the tooling.


----

=== Felix ===

Felix is an implementation of the OSGi R4 service platform.

Community
 * The community is working toward incubator gradution.
 * Continued organization of the wiki (and generated web site), creating the
subproject documentation section with new documentation on for various
subprojects, including a placeholder for the Felix Commons initiative.
 * Voted Karl Pauls as Release Manager.
 * Community voted on and released Felix 0.8.0-incubator.
 * A Felix-related talk was given at ApacheCon 2006 in Austin, Texas.
 * We have seen an apparent influx of new community members based on some
new faces being active on the mailing list and even a new contributor (Chris
Custine).
 * Emil Ivov announced the 1.0-alpha1 release of SIP Communicator, a
Felix-based multi-protocol instant messenger and SIP software phone.

Software
 * Felix 0.8.0-incubator approved by the Incubator PMC and is available for
download.
 * Felix Commons initiative started in earnest with the goal of creating
bundles out of popular open source libraries, headed by Enrique Rodriguez.
John Conlon submitted several POM files for various libraries and Felix
Meschberger and Tim Moloney have also expressed interest in doing so.
 * Several patches from Felix Meschberger improving the framework's ability
to be used in embedded use cases, particularly issues surrounding framework
shutdown and clean up.
 * Created a new Maven 2 plugin for creating OSGi bundles, which uses the
BND tool from Peter Kriens. This plugin is quite a bit different than the
existing plugin, but the goal is to try to merge the two if possible.
 * Major patch to iPOJO by Clement Escoffier.
 * Initial prototyping of "require bundle" functionality complete in Richard
Hall's sandbox, work has begun to transition to trunk.
 * Patch submitted by Chris Custine to implement bundle manifest header
localization.
 * Patch submitted by Kamen Petroff to allow additional imports to be
specified for the old Maven plugin.
 * Rick Litton worked with the Eclipse community to get their extension
point mechanism working on Felix, this effort will continue as bundle
localization and require-bundle capabilities are added to Felix.

Licensing and other isses
 * Committed latest OSGi Alliance source code, which is the official release
licensed under the Apache license.
 * Committed OSGi Alliance Foundation source code (licensed under the Apache
license), which provides stubs for javax.microedition.io, so that we can
compile everything again.
 * A patch from Felix Meschberger for the URL Handlers service was put on
hold since it was not clear if their were any licensing implications as a
result of its inspiration from Equinox code. The patch/functionality is
targeted to be resolved for the 1.0.0 release.

----

=== FtpServer ===

FtpServer is an implementation of RFC959 and related protocols.

Community
 * Voted to add new commiter, Dave Roberts. Actually CLA registration and
account setup still in progress
 * The mail traffic on the dev list has increase the last couple of months,
probably due to more active development again
 * But, we still don't have a large community backing FtpServer. More active
communication about the project might be needed.

Code and documentation
 * Migration to Maven 2 complete
 * Integration with MINA almost complete. When done, MINA will be the
default choice for socket handling. Our old code will remain to support FTP
and FTPS on Java 1.4 platforms
 * We are getting close to a sufficiently complete code for doing a first
milestone release soon.
 * Documentation has been migrated to the Confluence wiki. We expect this
will make our documentation easier to maintain and up-to-date.

----

=== Graffito ===

Graffito is a framework for content-based applications, especially in
portlet environments. Graffito entered incubation on September 20, 2004.

Top three items to resolve before graduation:

   1. Build a self-sustaining community
   2. Create an incubating Graffito release
   3. Move the JCR mapping component to the Jackrabbit project

There hasn't been much activity in the Graffito project since the last
report. A discussion on what to do with the project that still hasn't
reached "critical mass" after over two years of incubation is currently
taking place. The perceived complexity of the project is seen by many as a
barrier to start using or contributing to Graffito. Splitting the project
into more manageable component projects was raised as one potential approach
to reviving the codebase and project community.

----

=== Heraldry ===

Heraldry is a project to implement the OpenID digital identity
specification.

Despite a single large block checkin recently, there is almost no activity
on the heraldry-dev list.   Also files previously checked in retain LGPL
license headers.  This has not been corrected despite requests from the
mentors.

----

=== Lucene.Net ===

Lucene.Net is a port of the Java Lucene to C#.  The API, algorithm and index
are cross compatible.

Incubation

* Lucene.Net has been under incubation since April 2006

Community

* An active, but a small community exists.  The challenge has been to bring
in folks who are willing to contribute to the code beside myself.

Code and documentation

* The code base continues to develop and new releases are being made.
Recently Lucene.Net 2.0 "final" was release as well as Highlighter.Net 2.0
and Snowball.Net 2.0.  In addition, for each of those components, there
corresponding MSDN style documentation is also release.

----

=== NMaven ===

NMaven develops plugins and integration for Maven to make building and using
.NET languages a first-class citizen in Maven.

Incubating since: 2006-11-17

This is the second monthly report for this podling.

Dan Fabulich (listed on original proposal) had his account created and was
added to the committer list.

Healthy discussion taking part about design on the dev@ list.

No new committers to date.

----

=== UIMA ===

UIMA is a component framework for the analysis of unstructured content such
as text, audio and video.

UIMA was accepted for incubation on October 10, 2006

Top 3 things to resolve before graduation:

  1. Complete code transition to Apache, do a release with all IP issues
cleared
  2. Attract diverse, active committers
  3. Do a migration tool to enable migration to the Apache version
UIMA's incubation status file is here:
http://incubator.apache.org/projects/uima.html

Some recent activity:

  * The UIMA Sandbox has been populated with some example annotators
  * A person new to the project, Jorn Kottmann, has written an Eclipse
plugin he wants to contribute - we're going through the steps to bring this
into the UIMA Sandbox. He has submitted a software grant, and we're awaiting
it's acknowledgement (as of Wednesday, Jan 10)
  * We expect to do a release next month, and have been working to get all
the little details needed for this completed.

We expect that we will need some assistance in doing our first release, to
verify we're following the rules properly. We will start by using our
mentors, and then ask the incubator PMC to review the proposed release.

=== Roller ===

We've been very busy with new feature development for Roller, but we
have also spent time preparing Roller for graduation and now that
we've got an Apache web and wiki presence, two of the last items on
our checklist, we feel that we're just about ready to call for a vote.
More about that later. For now, here's some status on our
accomplishments since our last report in July 2006:

* Roller 3.0 released. We detailed the new features of Roller 3.0 in
the last report. They include a completely new rendering system with a
new URL structure, new template models/macros, better multi-language
blog support and a new blog-based front page. We released Roller 3.0
on November 7, 2006.
http://rollerweblogger.org/wiki/Wiki.jsp?page=Roller_3.0_WhatsNew

* Roller 3.1 development. Following Roller 3.0, we developed another
major new release of Roller. The major new features are full-support
for weblog tagging, a better rich-text editor based on Xinha,
full-preview and bulk-delete of comments. We've made three release
candidate releases and with RC3 we're just about ready to make the
final release.
http://rollerweblogger.org/wiki/Wiki.jsp?page=Roller_3.1_WhatsNew

* Established Roller web presence at apache.org. We have now
established a web site for Roller at apache.org. Keeping with our
community traditions, this site will be a simple front-page that links
into a wiki where actual content will be created and updated.
http://incubator.apache.org/roller/

* Established Roller wiki space at apache.org. We have also started to
migrate wiki content from the old Roller wiki to the new wiki site at
apache.org. We chose Confluence because we want the wiki to serve as a
tightly controlled content management system (similar  to the way we
were using JSPWiki before).
http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ROLLER

* We have almost completed a JPA implementation of Roller back-end.
The new implementation is passing about 95% of  the back-end unit
tests and we are actively working on getting it ready to test and
compare against our current Hibernate implementation.

* As part of our community building efforts we presented talk on
Roller at ApacheCon US 2006 and have submitted multiple Roller-related
proposals to ApacheCon EU and JavaOne 2007.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache James Project

New committer: Robert Burrell Donkin
New releases: James 2.3.0 final released

The James project team has some frayed nerves.  My guess is that 75% of
the commits in 2006 came from people who were given committer rights in
2005 and 2006.  In other words, there has been a big committer turnover,
and this has created contention as the team struggles to gel.

I honestly do not think the situation is that bad, but in the second
half of 2006 I have had multiple offline conversations with members who
were unhappy with the way the team is performing, both with old and new
committers.

The recent addition of Robert Burrell Donkin as a committer has helped
as he embodies the ASF positive team-driven attitude and is a good role
model.  Personally, I have tried to be both hands-off and hands-on in
different months, have seen mixed results.  Based on group discussion,
I'm staying as PMC chair at least until this team has gelled.

I would ask the board to consider having a board member or
representative monitor the dev, public and private PMC mailing lists.
Then if he/she deems appropriate, I think the group would welcome that
person take an active role in helping the team gel.

Fundamentally I think everyone is committed to the ASF credos but don't
feel comfortable with the mechanics and there is just a lot of personal
friction that has built up.

Please feel free to contact me if you would like additional information.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Maven Project

The two outstanding proposals to the board have been sent 1) a
proposal to allow the use and existence of "maven" in maven.org and
2) a proposal to officially make Contegix part of the Apache
infrastructure team.

We have been doing a lot in the area of release management lately.
We're pretty close to have all legal requirements, PGP signing, and
release staging worked out for all project using Maven at Apache.
This is actually pretty exciting as it means that all these legal
requirements will be handled safely and transparently for any project
alleviating the extreme annoyance of dealing with this stuff. We know
that it's vitally important that it be done correctly but is really
not much fun to track.

We have also had a number of discussions about the structure of the
community, which led to two proposals that were accepted:
- establish a list of emeritus committers from those that haven't
been active in the last year (though they are all welcome back at any
time and one committer requested they remain active)
- collapse the 13 permissions groups within the project to a single ACL

We had a little spat about commerical interests in the Maven project
itself which started about 5 employees of Mergere being nominated at
once. We are sorting this out internally, but if anyone on the board
wants any clarification on the details please let us know.

Otherwise things are going well in the project and we plan to tell
people about it at ApacheCon!

New Projects
----------------------
The NMaven project, which deals with creating .net artifacts with
Maven, is now a podling in the incubator.

New PMC Members
----------------------

John Tolentino

New Committers
----------------------

Rahul Thakur
Andrew Williams
Barrie Treloar

Releases
----------------------

Maven 2.0.5 (it will be release in a couple days so close enough)
Eclipse plugin 2.3
Plugin Plugin 2.2
Maven SCM 1.0 beta 4
EAR plugin 2.3
WAR plugin 2.0.2
Deploy plugin 2.3
Dependency plugin 2.0-alpha-1
Changes plugin 2.0-beta-2
DOAP plugin 1.0-beta-1
GPG plugin 1.0-alpha-1
Javadoc plugin 2.2
Remote resources plugin 1.0-alpha-1
Source plugin 2.0.2


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Apache MINA is a Java network application framework, which enables
rapid development of high-performance and high-quality network
applications.

TLP Promotion
=============
The required infra changes for MINA TLP promotion has been finished,
except for JIRA.  We requested the infra team to change our project ID
from DIRMINA to MINA and to create appropriate groups in JIRA, but
it's not finished yet.  It's OK for now, but we will at least need our
own JIRA groups for better permission management.  Please let me know
if any further assistance is needed, so I can help the infra team.

The whole MINA web site has been migrated to cwiki.apache.org.
mina.apache.org  contains only a small .htaccess file that proxies the
requests to htp://cwiki.apache.org/MINA/ selectively.  The build
script generates only report pages such as JavaDoc and Xref.

Releases
========
MINA 1.0.1 has been released on December 6, 2006, with 15 issues
including 13 bugs fixed.

Community News
==============
Wildfire, Jive Software's commercial XMPP (Jabber protocol) server has
replaced their in-house networking layer with MINA, and got an
impressive scalability boost, 33,000 concurrent users.

We've found that people who didn't fax his or her CLA are having
difficulties sharing his or her performance test results easily.  They
usually share their reports using the mailing list, but centralized
efforts are inevitable to transform their text messages into fancy
charts and explanation with more flesh.

Issues
======
We are facing more requests on documentation.  Two community members,
Cameron Taggart and Jeroen Brattinga, sent their CLAs to get write
access to the cwiki space.  There's no big activity so far, but we
expect more activity once we start to upload more tutorials and
guides.

Alex Karasulu has been trying to clear IP issues with AsyncWeb, an
asynchronous HTTP implementation built on top of MINA.  It took
moderate amount of time due to the lawyers' lack of understanding on
the ASF, but they finally have agreed on signing the software grant.
We expect embracing AsyncWeb project under Apache MINA due to their
strong relationship and dependency once the IP clarification process
is finished.

Related Links
=============
* MINA Home:
   http://mina.apache.org/
* Fixed issues in 1.0.1:
   http://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10670&styleName=Html&version=12312080
* Wildfire scalability boost:
   http://www.igniterealtime.org/blog/2006/12/19/scalability-turn-it-to-eleven/


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

Summary
=======
 * Active Community, no substantial changes
 * JSF 1.2 compatible MyFaces coming soon
 * Release stability and release cycles are our weak point

Community
=========
 * Votes to add three more PMC members took place
 * Still very active user and developer community

JSF 1.2
=======
 * JSF 1.2 (JSR-252) development branch is making good progress and is
planned to be feature complete by end of first quarter 2007.
 * JSR-252 TCK has been received from Sun and is ready for testing.
 * There are contacts to the Geronimo team and MyFaces 1.2.x is
planned to be included in upcoming Geronimo 2.0 Milestone.

MyFaces Core
============
 * Latest stable MyFaces Core (API + Impl) release is still 1.1.4 that
was published on September 18, 2006.
 * Core 1.1.5 is pending and will be out soon - hopefully.

MyFaces Tomahawk
================
 * Next release 1.1.4 of sub project MyFaces Tomahawk (JSF component
library) should have been published shortly after the last report, but
was not. Reason: Lack of testers, lack of interest, ...? Everyone
seems to be using (and testing) the latest 1.1.5 snapshots.

MyFaces Tobago
==============
 * Latest MyFaces Tobago sub project (JSF component library) release
1.0.9 was published on 23/Dec/06.

Conclusion
========
All in all we are making good progress but we MUST improve our release
procedure to get more stable releases and to improve our release
cycles. There are already some ongoing discussions and ideas on our
lists regarding these issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

There continues to be a steady stream of reports of various kinds
arriving at security@apache.org. These continue to be dealt with
promptly by the security team.  For Oct-Dec 2006 we had 39 non-SPAM
requests out of about 1270 messages that made it through the spamfilter.

 31% (12) User asks support question
 26% (10) Actual report of a vulnerability (both valid and invalid)
 20% ( 8) Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
 18% ( 7) Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
  5% ( 2)  User was hacked, but it wasn't ASF software at fault


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Shale Project

Overview
-------------

The Apache Shale TLP was created in June 2006 to further the development
of the Shale Framework, a web application framework built on top of
JavaServer Faces. This is our latest quarterly report.

PMC and Committer Changes
--------------------------------------------

We have added two new committers this quarter:

* David Geary, who has worked on Shale code when it was part of the Struts
  project

* Rahul Alkolar, who has made substantial contributions (particularly in the
  Dialog Manager area, where one implementation is based on his work in
  the Commons SCXML project)

Current Development Activities
--------------------------------------------

This quarter, we have focused on several major areas of work, in preparation
for what is hoped to be a 1.0.4 release that can be voted GA quality:

* Per many requests from the user community, split the
  functionality supported by Shale into finer grained individual
  modules, so users can pick and choose which combinations
  of functionality they prefer.

* Improve the quality and organization of the web site documentation
  and user guide information, including migrating it to the corresponding
  submodules (we use Maven2's website generation technology).

* Replace the original dialog manager implementation with a two tier
  API that addresses the major functional limitations of the original
  design (such as only supporting a single window or frame), plus
  added pluggable back end support for the state manager engine.
  Two implementations are provided by default -- a "basic" one that
  is functionally compatible with the previous support, and an
  advanced one that uses Commons SCXML to manage execution.

* The inevitable bugfix and minor enhancements endeavors.

The 1.0.4 release has been approved by the PMC, and is awaiting final
release management activities before being announced. A quality vote
will take place later (we follow essentially the same process that Tomcat
and Struts do in this regard). Our plan is to post a separate quality vote
for the Shale Tiles module (included in the release) from the rest of the
code, since it relies on an unreleased snapshot of the Standalone Tiles
code that is now in the process of being migrated to a TLP.

In conjunction with this release, we are branching the 1.0.x development
train so that important bugfixes and/or security vulnerabilities can be
repaired quickly, without disrupting existing downstream users by the
inclusion of new features (many of which might not have stabilized yet) if
such a release were cut from the trunk. The trunk has been designated as
version 1.1.0-SNAPSHOT and is currently open for new features and
enhancements, as well as bugfixes. In this way, we hope to avoid the issues
some other projects have had of a very long time between releases due to
only doing intermixed bugfix and feature releases from the trunk.

Community
-----------------

At ApacheCon US, we announced the winner of a logo contest, to have
a nice website logo (and a "powered by" image) that would be made
available for use by developers using Shale. The winning artist has
attempted to submit his ICLA via fax, but it has not yet been recorded
(he's in Egypt, which might be part of the issue there).

The Shale developer community continues to operate harmoniously,
both within the project and with other projects (such as Struts and
MyFaces) where there is substantial overlap in committer base, and
many of the committers are active on multiple projects simultaneously.
There are no community issues to raise to the Board's attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

While there have been no new releases in this last quarter, there has been
a great deal of development activity. Struts 2 has been improving by leaps
and bounds, and we are close to another 2.0.x release; Tiles has gone
through significant redesign and cleanup; and Struts 1.x is making steady
progress towards another release.

In addition to the activity on the code base, and after a great deal of
discussion, our Tiles subproject was approved by the board as a new top
level project, and is in the process of moving out on its own. This will
help further two goals: providing Tiles with the opportunity and
environment to prosper beyond the confines of Struts; and refocusing the
Struts team on our core frameworks.

Subsequent to some discussion and debate elsewhere, the Struts team
reorganised our web site to clearly delineate the portions of the site
intended for end users versus developers and potential developers.

An XSS vulnerability was reported to the Struts PMC in December. The
problem has been addressed, and the fix will be included in the upcoming
Struts 1.3.6 release.

No new committers or PMC members have been added in the last quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Tapestry 4.1

Tapestry 4.1 integrates Ajax support directly into Tapestry. It bundles
the Dojo toolkit libraries and adds many features to integrate the two.

We've seen the gradual maturation of some of the new Ajax features, as
well as general bug fixes and other improvements to the Tapestry 4 code base.

The use of Maven 2 in has resulted in a much improved overall development
process, and improved developer interaction with the Tapestry community.

  * Snapshot releases - Tapestry 4.1 / 4.1.1 / 4.1.2 have all been
    continually released into the Apache snapshot repositories throughout
    the development cycle for each release, resulting in much better user
    feedback as well as improved community happiness as bug fixes and
    improvements don't have to wait for the next official release.

  * Documentation Management - There has been big improvements in the
    quality and quantity of Tapestry documentation. In addition, marketing
    and support of Tapestry has also been improved increasing the prominence
    of related links on the Tapestry project home page.

Tapestry 5

Tapestry 5 continues to steam along, many of the main features are in place,
including basic form support and input validation. Performance continues
to be excellent.

Kent Tong is building a test framework for unit testing individual
pages/components, aiming to make Tapestry 5 one of the most test-friendly
web frameworks. Many core functions are already working.

Miscellaneous Progress

  * Community Projects - There has been a lot of good activity involving
    outside project development. Some of the more exciting projects are
    Tapestry IDE support projects for NetBeans and for IntelliJ. A couple
    of different approaches to Hibernate integration have become available.
    A brand new Tapestry book, Tapestry 101, covers Tapestry 4 in detail.

  * Improved "Look" - The main Tapestry web sites and demo projects have
    all been reworked to project a more polished and professional look
    and feel.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache TCL Project

[ no report received ]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Velocity Project

General information
-------------------

We have moved out of the Jakarta umbrella and cut almost all ties.

The TLP now has an official web site at velocity.apache.org with
sub-websites for all projects.

The Velocity project currently has no board-level issues at this time.

No new committers were voted in since the last board report.
No new PMC members were voted in since the last board report.

A short discussion on the PMC list revealed that a number of "emeritus
committers" fell off the boat when we moved out of Jakarta. These are
now recognized in an "Emeriti" section on the web site. The PMC
discussed about re-granting committer status if any of these emeritus
committers decides to ask about it.

Velocity Engine project
-----------------------

Development towards the next major release, 1.5 continues. A CfV date
has been proposed (21st January).

No beta or final releases were made since the last board report.

Velocity Tools project
----------------------

VelocityTools 1.3-beta1 has been voted and released on December 21st.

A new test framework and minor tool enhancements have been checked in
since.  It doesn't appear likely that we'll need another beta.   The
hope is for an RC by end of January and a final in early February.

Velocity DVSL
-------------

There were no changes in the DVSL code base. No DVSL development
happened in the last month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Tiles Project

The INFRA ticket for the Tiles infrastructure setup has been accepted and
work is proceeding.  We have a JIRA instance and are already using it to
post new tickets.  Some development is continuing in the Struts sandbox
while we wait for the TLP infrastructure to be set up.

There are no official committers on the project other than the original PMC
at this time, but we are seeing some interest from a few other Struts
committers on occasion.   Questions and posts on the Struts mail lists
pertaining to Tiles are steady.  No official announcement of the Tiles TLP
has been made.  We will make an announcement when the mailing lists are
ready for posting.

We do not have any community or legal issues at this time or anything else
that needs the board attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

[ no report received ]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Just a quick update this month on the status of the RSA md4/md5 issue,
as requested.  Discussions regarding the issue with the md4/md5 code
seem to indicate that we will have to remove the code.  Asking RSA for
an additional grant seems unlikely to be useful due to the fact that
they've already issued an IPR statement which seems to be not free
enough from our perspective and rather final:

http://www.ietf.org/ietf/IPR/RSA-MD-all

With that in mind work has started on a solution to this based on the
research done by Roy on the alternative implementations out there.  It
looks like we'll probably want to go with the dovecot implementation,
as it covers more of our needs and has already had much of the
integration work done.  For more details see current posts to the
associated mailing list threads on dev@apr.a.o.  Hopefully this will
be resolved in the very near future as soon as some technical issues
with the patch can be worked out.

There are no other issues requiring board attention at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Harmony Project

[ no report received ]


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Labs Project

We have added a few more labs and we are now at 8, with 2 being under
vote right now.

The language/OS/committership is diverse and the community is healthy
and attracting attention from all sides of the foundation. The
'neutrality' feeling that we wanted to inspire seems to be reflected in
the community participation and in the diversity of
technologies/prog-languages used in the various labs.

There seems to be a cluster of interest in 'mail list' analysis (my
Agora, Brett Porter's Mboxer and the proposed Pulse which is Ken's code
that currently graphs the mail list usages) and, as Santiago put it,
it's nice to see 'loosely coupled pieces' coming together in different labs.

Personally, I think that putting loosely coupled pieces close together
and see what happens was one of the reasons to start labs in the first
place and the lack of friction seems to indicate that the effort is
successful in bringing a little unity to otherwise personal efforts.
It's hard to see at this point what evolution these pieces will undergo,
but it's promising to see labs becoming a center of attraction for such
"otherwise left on one's hard drive" efforts.

Another interesting thing to note is Roy's request for a "web
architecture lab", currently under vote, that is the first "code-less"
lab proposed. As 'code-less' labs came up during the discussion for the
creation of Apache Labs and nobody mentioned reasons to avoid them, it's
safe to assume that it will pass (no negative votes from the PMC at this
time). Then, it will be interesting to see how such lab evolves and
weather this will inspire others to do similar things in other areas.

No social or legal issues to report, the list has been relatively quiet
during the xmas vacations but I suspect more traction will appear with
the new year.

From the infra@ side, labs still don't have a zone, but since there is
not much interest for it right now from the labs PIs, we see no reason,
at this time, to push more for it.

In short, no actions are required from the board.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache OFBiz Project

This report, for January 2007, is the first report for OFBiz (Open
For Business) as a top level project.

Exiting from Incubator, Infrastructure Tasks:
- interaction with Infrastructure for the creation of new DNS entry
for ofbiz.apache.org (done)
- interaction with Infrastructure for the migration of the web site
(done)
- interaction with Infrastructure for project name update in the Jira
issue tracker (done)
- interaction with Infrastructure for the migration/relocation of the
svn repository (done)
- updated all the resources of the ASF site to refer to OFBiz as a
TLP (done); submitted request to the projects.apache.org to be listed
there (done)
- interaction with Infrastructure for the migration of the mailing
lists (done)
- a minor task remains for the mailing lists to move the archives
over from the old incubator lists

Community:
- a lot of activity in the user and dev mailing lists
- public discussion and plans for a new release happening in early
2007; there are details for the release plan on the project
documentation site (at http://docs.ofbiz.org/x/1wE); the general plan
right now is to create a release branch from the trunk once per year
to hopefully build a community around that release to stabilize it
- the task of cleaning up the project website and documentation has
been started and will likely continue over coming months
- a host has been found for a developers conference, a sort of
"hackathon" for OFBiz, this is tentatively planned for early March
and is something there is interest in doing regularly to help start
or finish project objectives that have had a hard time maturing
"naturally"
- one new committer (Scott Gray, lektran at gmail.com) has been voted
in by the PMC and we are in the process of getting commit access
setup for him; because of pre-ASF contributions we already have a CLA
on file for Scott

External Project Resources
- there are some historic resources not hosted on ASF infrastructure
that are not planned to be migrated, including the pre-ASF: SVN
repository and mailing list archives
- there are 2 active resources that we have not yet found a place for
in the ASF infrastructure; there is a low priority discussion on the
infra mailing list about these, and the possibility of having the ASF
work more closely with Contegix who hosts resources for many open
source projects, including the resources in the previous item,
because they now host these; the two items are some large video files
that are a tutorial introduction to the OFBiz Framework, and the
Confluence site which we use for documentation and general project
information management; so far what will happen with these is not
known, and in the interim Contegix is happy to help maintain these
resources, and we are working with them to do so


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Cayenne Project

SUMMARY
-------

This is the first ever report after Cayenne graduation as a TLP. At
the moment we concentrate on the infrastructure migration and making
the first non-incubating release.

COMMUNITY
---------

Cayenne community is healthy as before. New volunteers help us with
the web site design.

New PMC Members: NONE
New Committers: NONE


PROJECT STATUS
--------------

* We are working on the infrastructure migration to the TLP location,
although most of the opened infrastructure tasks haven't been addressed
yet.
* Stable releases 1.2.2 and 2.0.2 are being voted on at this moment.
2.0.2 should become the first release made by Cayenne as a TLP (as
opposed to 1.2 which is a pre-Apache maintenance branch). 3.0 release
milstone is on the way.
* We are working on a new web site design.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the January 17, 2007 board meeting.
