                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            October 17, 2007


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and begin when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum as recognized by
    the chairman at 10:02.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Justin Erenkrantz
        J Aaron Farr
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson Jr (except 10:50-11:06)
        William Rowe Jr
        Sam Ruby
        Henning Schmiedehausen
        Greg Stein
        Henri Yandell

    Guests:

        Erik Abele
        Matt Hogstrom

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of August 1, 2007

       See: board_minutes_2007_08_01.txt

       Approved via General Consent.

    B. The meeting of August 29, 2007

       See: board_minutes_2007_08_29.txt

       Approved via General Consent.

    C. The meeting of September 19, 2007

       Tabled

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Jim]

       The ASF has seen continued energy over the last month, both
       internally, with PMC efforts and releases, as well as external,
       with another Platinum sponsor. Infrastructure also continues
       to grow and expand. The board itself is gelling into a more
       smoothly running group.

       Regarding transition, it appears that the secretarial
       transition is finally getting back on an even keel. Mis-
       communication and unverified assumptions seem to be at
       the core of the issues seen over the last few months.
       To expedite this, I met with the sec-assist directly
       to get to the root causes. Since this is no longer required,
       I will be removing myself from this issue.

       The big events for next month are the two ApacheCon events:
       ApacheCon US 2007 in Atlanta, GA and the OS Summit Asia 2007
       in Hong Kong. The membership itself was pinged regarding
       a possible IRC-held members meeting in December. A discussion
       item regarding this is scheduled for this meeting.

    B. President [Justin]

       There have been a lot of requests for project-specific support
       infrastructure in the last month.  At this time, we can't service
       all of them with our available resources; but we're going to take
       these requests under consideration as we draft up the "next
       generation" machine plan.  As we add more computational
       resources, we'll try to service these requests as best as we can.
       At the face-to-face infra meeting scheduled for Atlanta, the
       focus will be on devising this new plan which should guide the
       eighteen month's hardware acquisition strategies.

       Joe completed the transition to a replacement people.a.o machine
       with minimal downtime and knowledge to external parties.  The TCL
       PMC has been operating on a custom website (at their request), so
       there has been downtime for their site as they install and
       configure the required software on the new machine.  It is
       infrastructure's position to strongly discourage such custom
       sites as we can not provide support for these sites and will
       occassionally be unreachable.  For certain higher-traffic TLPs,
       we would probably forbid such custom sites outright due to
       computational constraints and the need to keep the majority of
       sites operational at all times.

       We currently have two incoming machines from Sun which required
       us to purchase extra equipment to outfit the machines (hard
       drives and rails - about $2000 of extra equipment).  These
       machines will be initially purposed to provide a better Solaris
       development platform for some of our projects that have outgrown
       our current zone support.  We also have preliminarily discussed
       other donations with Sun that may be realized towards the end of
       the year if a budget can be acquired within Sun.

       Besides the Platinum sponsorship, Yahoo! has also agreed to host
       at their data centers a small number of machines that can be
       purposed for project testing.  We're waiting on final
       instructions from them to obtain access to the machines.  It is
       hoped that we can secure volunteers from projects to help
       maintain these machines rather than relying on staff.

       We purchased a license for VMWare Workstation 6 and that has
       improved the stability of the VMs that are provided to some of
       our PMCs.

       Per Karen from SFLC, we are not legally required to perform an
       audit.  Also, at Brian's introduction, I had discussions with
       Mollie Marshall from Hood & Strong, the auditors for Mozilla. She
       concurred with Karen's opinion that an audit was not required.
       ($2 million/year is the trigger point for California non-profits.)
       After discussing our situation for a while, Mollie and I agreed
       that an audit would likely be overkill at this time with little
       tangible benefit to the ASF.  Keeping up on an informal audit
       process was recommended.  (Some factors in the decision include:
       what we already publicly disclose, our relatively low income
       flow, accessibility of Karen for advice, no sponsors have yet
       requested an audit as a condition of donation, and the absence
       of restricted donations.)

       I had discussions with Larry Rosen and Lars about resolving the
       ApacheCon and OS Summit Asia contracts.  For more information,
       please refer to Lars's report.

       Sam Ruby is now added as an authorized signer to our Wells Fargo
       accounts.  Now that the signers are up-to-date, over the next few
       months (low priority), I'll investigate switching the address
       that Wells Fargo sends notices and statements to be our permanent
       address as long as it doesn't necessarily complicate matters.

       Stats:
         Committers: 1595
         Sep '07 Avg. requests/day:
           www: 5,385,654 ; svn: 1,262,232 ; issues: 546,327
         Sep '07 Avg. data transfer/day (in GB):
           www: 993.37 ; svn: 10.41 ; issues: 5.72
         See: http://people.apache.org/~henkp/analog/

       A question was asked as to the 'trigger point' for an audit in
       Delaware.  Apparently, there is none.

    C. Treasurer [J Aaron]

       The biggest news is that we got the Yahoo! Sponsorship check
       in.  Other sources of funds over the last month included $95
       from Amazon (associate fee).

       I sent Tiffany Griffith a W9 form for Apache's 2007
       participation in the Google Summer of Code program.

       Justin already noted updates to our Well's Fargo account in his
       report.
       
       Current Accounts:

       Paypal                         $  2,780.41  ($+ 1,059.82)
       Checking                       $139,483.73  ($+93,463.09)
       Savings                        $155,403.56  ($+   292.89)
       Total			      $297,667.70  ($+94,815.80)       


    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Sam]

       The minutes backlog has been addressed.  I'll try to do better.

       The secretary transition issue that Jim alludes to above does
       seem to both have come to a head, and being rapidly resolved.
       I do have one minor suggestion that may help a lot: convert
       secretary@apache.org from a mail alias to a true mailing list,
       archived and everything.  If there ever are any concerns, we
       could have a secretary-private, but I doubt it would be
       necessary.

       A signed renewal contract was sent to Joe Schaefer, and he
       has indicated that he signed it and returned it, but that
       FAX has yet to be processed.
       
       It was agreed that a true mailing list was not necessary for
       secretary@, an archive would be sufficient for these purposes.
       Justin to pursue making that happen.

       Additionally, Bill Rowe is planning to contact each project
       chair re: export requirements and should be able to report
       on the results of this in the next meeting.

 5. Additional Officer Reports

    A. VP of Legal Affairs [Sam Ruby]

       See Attachment 1

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. VP of JCP [Geir]

       See Attachment 2

       Geir was asked to recap the implications of the new ASF policy on
       non-harmony projects.  Beyond the vote itself on JSRs which include
       spec leads that the ASF feels are in voliation of the JSPA, there
       are none.  In particular, if a JSR passes despite the ASF's vote,
       a PMC may chose to implement that JSR (subject to the terms and
       conditions being acceptable), request TCK's, and participate in
       the expert group.

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Henri]

       See Attachment 3

       After some discussion, it was decided that the current set of
       security mailing lists and advertisements of such on the ASF
       web sites as they exist today is adequate and appropriate.

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Will Glass-Husain / Justin]

       See Attachment 4

       Agreed that this committee will be disbanded at the next board
       meeting unless a group of people comes forward with enough
       justification to keep this committee.

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Conference Planning Project [Ken Coar / J. Aaron]

       See Attachment 5

       Discussed the vote process, no action was taken.

       It was observed that we need to increase the visibility of
       AC/Asia.

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Audit Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment 6

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Public Relations Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 7

       A question was asked as to whether the dollar amounts associated with
       the contract should be published.  The answer was that they must
       be.

       Approved by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Hiram Chirino / Henning]

       See Attachment A

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Beehive Project [Eddie O'Neil / Sam]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache DB Project [Jean T. Anderson / Jim]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Directory Project [Emmanuel Lecharny / Greg]

       See Attachment D

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Geronimo Project [Matt Hogstrom / Will]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Geir]

       See Attachment F

       Jim to take back minor completeness of report issues to the incubator.

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas / Justin]

       See Attachment G

       Serge is already aware of the missing report.  Will add it to the
       queue for next month.

    H. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl / J. Aaron]

       See Attachment H

       Aaron to ping Jason.

    I. Apache MINA Project [Trustin Lee / Will]

       See Attachment I

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache MyFaces Project [Manfred Geiler / Henri]

       See Attachment J

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache ODE Project [Matthieu Riou / Greg]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache OpenEJB Project [David Blevins / Sam]

       See Attachment L

       Brief discussion on the terseness of the report.  Decision was that
       it was sufficient.

       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache OpenJPA Project [Craig Russell / Jim]

       See Attachment M

       Approved by General Consent.

    N. Apache ServiceMix Project [Guillaume Nodet / Geir]

       See Attachment N

       Jim tasked with getting the word out (presumably via Marvin) that
       project reports are expected to be in text/plain format.

       Approved as revised by General Consent.

    O. Apache Shale Project [Craig R. McClanahan / Henning]

       See Attachment O

       Approved by General Consent.

    P. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Justin]

       See Attachment P

       Approved by General Consent.

    Q. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Will]

       See Attachment Q

       Approved by General Consent.

    R. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Geir]

       See Attachment R

       Approved by General Consent.

    S. Apache Tomcat Project [Mladen Turk / Henri]

       See Attachment S

       The board will once again request another Tomcat report in November.

       Approved by General Consent.

    T. Apache Web Services Project [Glen Daniels / Jim]

       See Attachment T

       Approved by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Change the Conference Planning Chair

	   WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Ken Coar
	   to the office of Vice President, Conference Planning, and

	   WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
	   of Ken Coar from the office of Vice President, Conference
	   Planning, and

	   WHEREAS, the members of the Conference Planning Committee
	   have chosen by vote to recommend Lars Eilebrecht as the
	   successor to the post;

	   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Ken Coar is relieved and
	   discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office of
	   Vice President, Conference Planning, and

	   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Lars Eilebrecht be and hereby is
	   appointed to the office of Vice President, Conference Planning,
	   to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the
	   Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
	   resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until
	   a successor is appointed.

       Special order 7A, Change the Conference Planning Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

 8. Discussion Items

    A. ASF Members Meeting - set date and time.

       Based on discussion on members@, Sam to double check and announce
       the date for this meeting.  At the present time, Dec 11-13 looks
       like the most likely candidate.

    B. Set Time and Place of next board meeting in Atlanta.

       The meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 14th over lunch.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items
       
    Geir: update http://www.apache.org/jcp/ with an authoritative statement on
       what TCK aspects can be discussed in public based on the TCK NDAs.

       Status: Done

    Sam: fork FAQ

       Status: not yet started

10. Unfinished Business

11. New Business

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific).  Adjourned at 11:15.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of Legal Affairs

After an extended quiet period, I thought I would collect up a
few updates to the website, but that re-awoke the discussion.
What's cool is that this time around, there actually are more
people than Doug actually proposing actual wording.  I'm
convinced that we are continuing to make forward progress.

Backlog of items include following up with Sun on following the
licensing terms for Jasper, and a "fork FAQ".

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of JCP


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

There continues to be a steady stream of reports of various kinds arriving
at security@apache.org. These continue to be dealt with promptly by the
security team.  For Sep 2007:

5       Support question
1       Security vulnerability question, but not a vulnerability report
4       Phishing/spam/attacks point to site "powered by Apache"
1       Vulnerability report


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

 General News
 ------------

 * New Chair and VP for Conference Planning Project

   The election for the new ConCom chair started on 21 September 2007
   and ended on 1 October 2007 and identified Lars Eilebrecht as the
   winner. The final vote tally was: Lars Eilebrecht 6, Noirin
   Plunkett 4, Rich Bowen 0, Shane Curcuru 0 (two votes were changed
   to resolve a tie between Lars and Noirin).
   
   Lars Eilebrecht takes over the position from Ken Coar who has
   served as the chair and VP of the Conference Planning Project since
   its creation in 1999. The members of the conference committee would
   like to thank Ken for the many years of effort that he has put into
   ConCom, and that he has decided to remain involved in ConCom.


 * New Committee Members

   The conference committee has voted to add  J Aaron Farr and William
   A. Rowe, Jr. as new members. Both received 8 +1 votes (no other
   votes). The change was acknowledged by the board (Henri Yandell)
   on October 7, 2007.


 * New Volunteers

   The concom mailing list got a couple of new subscribers, i.e.,
   members who are interested in helping out with various bits and
   pieces.


 * ApacheCon Blog/Planet

   In the past there used to be an ApacheCon blog, but it was removed
   due to non-use. However, it has been decided that more blogging
   about ApacheCon is desirable. Discussions have started on how and
   where to create a general ApacheCon blog/planet and per-conference
   blogs. No final decision has been made yet.


 * Conference Calls

   ConCom has started using the Raindance conference call service 
   (provided by Covalent) for ConCom-related conference calls.
   Currently, there are weekly conference calls as we are close to
   ApacheCon US and OS Summit. Minutes for these conference calls
   are usually created and made available at the following location:
   https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/ApacheCon/2007/minutes


 Conference Overview
 -------------------

 * ApacheCon US 2007
   Location and date: Atlanta, November 12-16, 2007
   Lead: Rich Bowen
   Planning list: planners-2007-us@apachecon.com
   Producer: Stone Circle Productions, Inc.

 * OS Summit Asia 2007 (joint-conference with Eclipse Foundation)
   Location and date: Hong Kong, November 26-30, 2007
   Leaders: J Aaron Farr, Justin Erenkrantz, Noirin Plunkett
   Planning list: planners-2007-asia@apachecon.com
   Producer: OS Summit LLC

 * ApacheCon Europe 2008
   Location and date: Amsterdam, April 7-11, 2008
   Lead: Noirin Plunkett
   Co-Lead: Lars Eilebrecht
   Planning list: planners-2008-eu@apachecon.com
   Producer: Stone Circle Productions, Inc.

 * ApacheCon US 2008
   Location and date: New Orleans, November 3-7, 2008
   Lead and Co-Lead: not yet defined
   Planning list: not created yet
   Producer: Stone Circle Productions, Inc.

 * ApacheCon Peru 2008 (name not final yet)
   An Apache-related conference may be co-hosted with the VISION 2008
   conference in Lima, Peru. Details are being discussed, and no final
   decisions have been made yet.


 ApacheCon US 2007 News
 ----------------------

 * The conference is only a few weeks away and registration numbers are
   slowly growing. As of October 14th, 186 individuals have registered
   for 157 full conference passes; plus various trainings and numerous
   day passes.

 * Of 21 trainings, 10 are confirmed (have made breakeven point); a 
   handful may be confirmed pending new registrants, and 7 are 
   likely to be canceled. We continue to reach out to those speakers
   who's training registrations are below the breakeven point, and rely
   on their assistance in getting the word out to their target audience.

 * A preliminary schedule for the Fast Feather Track has been published.
   15 of 18 slots are confirmed with talks about Incubator projects or
   projects that recently left the Incubator.

 * Sponsorships are going well; see conference Web site for complete
   list of all sponsors, media partners, and exhibitors.

 * The event is covered by our ApacheCon master contract with SCP,
   but the necessary addendum still needs to be created and signed.
   Lars is in contact with Charel and is waiting for a first
   proposal/draft from her.


 OS Summit Asia 2007 News
 ------------------------

 * Justin is in contact with Charel and the Eclipse Foundation in order
   to get the event covered by a proper contract between the ASF and
   OS Summit LLC. It has been decided to do a two-way contract, i.e.,
   a contract between Eclipse and OS Summit LLC, and a contract between
   the ASF and OS Summit LCC. On October 9th a short conference call was
   held with Larry Rosen, Justin Erenkrantz, and Lars Eilebrecht to
   discuss some general legal questions and the course of action.

 * Sponsorships are going well; see conference Web site for complete
   list of all sponsors, media partners, and exhibitors.

 * Registration numbers are still very low, given the date: 35
   individuals have registered overall, with only a few training
   registrations.

 * Several options for improving conference registration have been
   discussed including a discount code for 'friends of Apache/Eclipse'.

 * The hard-copy conference program needs to be finalized this week
   (October 15).


 ApacheCon Europe 2008 News
 --------------------------

 * Noirin and Lars switched their roles. Noirin is now lead and Lars
   co-lead for the conference.

 * The Call for Papers was published September 27, 2007.
   The deadline for the CFP is October 26, 2007.
   The planning meeting will be held November 10-11, 2007 in Atlanta
   (the weekend before ApacheCon US 2007).


 ApacheCon US 2008 News
 ----------------------

 * The event is covered by our ApacheCon master contract with SCP,
   but the necessary addendum still needs to be created and signed.
   Lars is in contact with Charel in order to get the necessary
   paperwork done.


 ApacheCon Peru 2008 News
 ------------------------

 * No news since last board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Audit Project

As with last month, there's been no activity on the Audit list.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

This last month saw 2 significant events in PRC land. The first was that
we received a proposal from HALO Worldwide for outsourced
Marketing and PR support to the ASF via the PRC. The amount of the
agreement ($60,000 US for 12 months) is in alignment with what was
discussed with the board at previous meetings. The duties associated
with the proposal are also inline with our current needs and expectations.
Therefore, the PRC has elected to accept this proposal. The PRC is
currently in process of informing HALO (main point of contact
was offline for a period of time) and coordinating the ramp up.

Secondly, we have a second Platinum sponsor: Yahoo! Y! has also been working
with Infra regarding additional hardware donations as well.

There was some discussion regarding Bronze sponsors actually having
followable links on the ASF Thanks! page. It was noted that due to
its location on the ASF site, the "value" asssociated with the link
was significantly more than the $5,000 US. It was therefore decided
that Bronze sponsorship links with have the 'rel="nofollow"' attribute.
Current Bronze sponsors are not affected.

The PRC is looking into a Fast Feather track at AC US 07 to spread the
word about the Sponsorship program.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

Community:
 * The developer and user communities remain very active.
 * The Camel project, NMS project, and recent release candidate for ActiveMQ
   5.0 have generated much mailing list activity.
 * A code grant has been submitted for an NMS implementation that access
   Tibco EMS. (JIRA issue AMQNET-68)

Development:
 * We are starting to produce ActiveMQ 5.0.0 release candidates so a release
   is now eminent.
 * Camel 1.2.0 is also producing release candidates.

Releases:
 * ActiveMQ Camel 1.1.0 - A routing and mediation engine
 * ActiveMQ CPP 2.1 - A C++ client to ActiveMQ that implements the CMS API


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Beehive Project

Overall
======
All's quiet in the hive.  It's been another quiet quarter with minimal
commit activity and modest traffic on the user@ mailing list.  There
was some incremental bug fixing, but the project doesn't have forward
momentum.  There were no new releases, committers, or PMC members.

Community
=========
There were some questions on user@ that are being responded to by the
usual couple of suspects.  Otherwise, all is mature and quiet.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache DB Project

Apache DB October 2007
======================

Summary
-------
This was a busy quarter for Apache DB. There was one
software release, 3 new committers, 6 new pmc members,
and progress on processing the software grant for the
contribution of the Village code to Torque. More details
are below.

Releases
--------
Derby 10.3.1.4 was released on August 10.

New Committers
--------------
- Andy Jefferson (JDO)
- Dyre Tjeldvoll (Derby)
- Øystein Grøvlen (Derby)

New DB PMC Members
------------------
- Army Brown
- Myrna van Lunteren
- Mamta Satoor
- Suresh Thalamati
- Kristian Waagan
- Dag Wanvik

Followups
---------
The July 2007 report noted that the author of Village offered
the code to Torque and faxed in the software grant.  There was
something of a mixup in the recording of the grant, but that has
been sorted out now and we're proceeding with the Incubator's
"short form" IP clearance process.

New Issues
----------
There was a discussion on whether Derby should propose that it
move out of DB and into its own top level project. Most feedback
so far indicates Derby would like to stay put for now, but there
is acknowledgement that it might move at some point in the future.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Being the chair for now 5 months, and still learning how to deal with
the project in the best possible way. Not easy every day :)

The project is somehow stabilizing, with no new committers those 3
months (july and august are not the best months to get some new guys
away from sun and beach to face a computer...).

A very good Ldap Conference stood up in Köln (Germany) at the
beginning of September. This coupled with a PR and some new versions
generated a lot of buzz for ADS (more than 20% hit increase since
then, with a 100% peak for two weeks !). Marketing is important :)
(Thanks to Sally and Jim, btw)


Releases
========

It was quite a stressfull period, as we released 3 versions in one month:

As we have now three sub projects (Apache Directory Server, AKA ADS,
Apache Directory Studio AKA ADStudio and TripleSec) we also have three
different status :

ADS 1.5.1 : a long waited release, which fixed more than 100 bugs,
some of them being very annoying. The server is also faster, more
stable, and contains some interesting new things.

ADS 1.0.x : Nothing new since may, we can say that this major version
is pretty dormant. Not that we don't have bugs to fix in it, but we
consider that this version is almost dead.

ADStudio : 2 versions in september : 1.0.0 !!! and 2 weeks later, an
urgent bug fix, 1.0.1 (SSL support has been snatched by mistake in
1.0.0).

Triplesec : Nothing has changed right now

Kerberos : A big rewrite has been started on july, but due to external
reasons, the effort as somehow stopped since august. We hope to have a
better code base by the end of 2007, maybe Q1-2008

Community
=========

Chris Custine has been voted as a new PMC at the end of August. This
is a very good addition for us, as he shown dedication, and more
important, some good balance when it comes to take a decision. It's
good to have young blood, but it's also valuable to have some older
blood, with experimented peeople !

Seven of us went to Köln last month, for the first LdapConference. As
there were around 70 persons attending this conference, we were pretty
proud to represent 10% of all those guys ! We have had 3 presentations,
and were pretty lucky to have had a lot of very intersting conversations
with Ldap top guns, and also with some OpenLdap and Sun guys. We have
seen some pretty harsh blog posts this year from OpenLdap developpers
about ApacheDS, pinting out ADS bad performances, and it was a good
occasion to see each other and to try to align our visions. And it
worked ! I can say that we are brother in arms now :)

Apache Directory Studio has been downloaded more than 8500 times since
the very first version (feb, 15), but this is a very underestimated
estimation, as there are many other places where someone can download
the tool. However, this is a very successfull project, which brings a
lot of visibility on the project. A 1.1 version will be released in
the next couple of month, with new functionalities.

Kerberos has stalled since August, for many reasons, personnal and
professional. We are still to build a strong community around it, and
it will take time. We are still thinking that Kerberos is really a
major piece of the game, so we won't let it be.

We have more and more users, and the users mailing list is becoming
pretty active. We now have around 80 subscribers, 60 more than at the
beginning of this year. The curve show a steady increase
(http://people.apache.org/~coar/mlists.html#directory.apache.org).

Some discussion on the infra ML has occured about the opportunity to
use ADS as a base for managing committers, contributors, etc. The
common agreement is that we must experiment first.


Features
========

After the 1.5.1 release, some discussions arose about what will be the
next step : work on a 1.5.2 or move to a 2.0.

We all agreed that we have a pretty stable server (with around 100
issues ;) but the more we fix it, the more we find it difficult to
improve the server, because of some technical choices which have been
made years ago. At the end, a clear decision was agreed on :
- we will work on a 2.0 target, with massive architectural redesign
(no more JNDI inside the server, a new configuration, etc)
- a 1.5.2 version will be release, but it will be a merge from the 2.0
branch, so that users can 'experiment' the cool new features we will
add.

We expect to have a better base and a faster server after this big
refactoring, which will last for the next couple of months.

Our final target is to have this 2.0 out for the next Apache CON EU,
2008. We all think this is not impossible.

2.0 should also be validated as compliant by the OpenGroup, but with a
strongest level : STANDARD (VSLDAP compliance has three levels : BASE
- wich is what we have reached -, STANDARD and EXTENDED). We are
confident that we will obtain this STANDARD compliance.

A lot of work as been done to ease the configuration too. We now need
to focus on some migration tools, as this configuration have changed.

Issues
======

The number of open issues is increasing, not only because we find
bugs, but also because we are using JIRA more than before (which is a
good thing, IMO). Bugs are fixed as much as possible, but as releases
are not so easy to deliver, we try to focus on bugs when we feel a
release is needed. Hopefully, we don't have major issues.

Nothing new about documentation, except that we are now moving to
update 1.5 documentation to be ready when 2.0 will be out. We want to
add more real world use cases too.


Conclusion/Summary
==================

The 2.0 move was a very important decision, which was not so easy. We
have had some heated discussions, but this was good because at elast,
we had an opportunity to envision the different paths. We really
expect to get some production ready server by mid-2008 now, with a
level of performance close to the other servers.

The next big move will be to use ADS in real life and to extend it
with user oriented features : Triggers, Stored Procedure, Virtual
Attributes, other backends...


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

The Apache Geronimo Project has released Geronimo 2.0.1 in August. Our
initial attempt to release 2.0 was aborted due to a late discovery of a
security problem. Given that the release was in process we simply aborted
2.0 and corrected the problem and released as 2.0.1.

Releases
--------
    * Geronimo
      2.0.1 was released in August
      2.0.2 is in process for release in mid-October.

Much of current trunk development is concerned with improving runtime
server modularity. We are also working to provide "prepackaged"
integrations of other apache projects running in Geronimo, including Roller
and Apache Directory.

Subprojects
-----------

Components:
2.0.1 versions of the geronimo-transaction and geronimo-connector
components were released. 2.0.2 release candidates of the components are
being voted on at present.

DayTrader:
Is nearing a release of 2.0. Testing of the application on Geronimo 2.0.2
has been productive and a stable release is in order.

DevTools:
Geronimo Eclipse Plugin 2.0.0 was released in September.

Genesis:
Genesis 1.2 was released in August.

XBean:
XBean 3.2 was released in October. Xbean-spring is seeing wider adoption
in other apache projects such as Apache Directory. XBean 3.1 was
released in August.

Samples
Javamail
Specs

Multiple spec versions were released in August: JACC, JSP, Servlet,
geronimo-schema-j2ee, and geronimo-schema-jee.

Our collection of specs is being repackaged for easier use with OSGI based
projects such as ServiceMix 4.

JUGs and Conferences
--------------------

    * Apache Geronimo 2.0 at LinuxWorld Open Solutions Conference 2007 in Tokyo
    * Apache Geronimo 2.0 to Japan User's Group in Tokyo

Policy Changes
--------------

Community
---------

New Committers:
  Shiva Kumar H R

PMC Additions:
  Donald Woods
  Tim McConnell
  Jarek Gawor

Other Issues
------------

A Security issue was discovered in our Geronimo 2.0.0 release. The release
was withdrawn and a Geronimo 2.0.1 was released to address the problem.

An MEJB security vulnerability was discovered in Geronimo 2.0.1.
Instructions on disabling MEJB were made available to Geronimo users.
Geronimo 2.0.2 will fix this vulnerability.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

The Incubator enjoyed another good month.

Tuscany and stdcxx are in the process of graduation votes and preparation of
TLP proposals.  Ivy graduated into Ant.  TripleSoup and JUICE are being put
into a dormant status.  "Pig" is *just* coming in, and "Imperius" should
enter Incubation shortly.  The RAT analysis tool is also being proposed for
Incubation.  The first reports for Sanselan, Sling and JSPWiki are included
in this month's report.  Lokahi isn't due to report this month, but since
there has been some on-going concern, I want to note that there has been
*some* uptick in activity, with a focus on removing the dependency on
Oracle.

-------------------------

=== CXF ===

Project name - Apache CXF

Description - SOA enabling framework, web services toolkit

Date of entry - August 2006

Items to resolve before graduation:
  * Diversity - Active committers are mostly IONA people. We did vote in two
new independent committers and Dan Diephouse now works for an IONA
competitor, so some progress is being made.


Community aspects:
  * Voted in Benson Margulies due to excellent work in several areas of the
code, but specifically in the Aegis and XFire migration things.
  * Voted in Glen Mazza due to excellent work cleaning up various parts of
the code, reviewing everyones commits, updating docs, etc....
  * Released 2.0.1-incubator and 2.0.2-incubator.
  * Started a discussion to talk about Graduation
([http://www.nabble.com/Graduating.....-tf4231363.html#a12038088 link]) but
the discussion turned more to how to increase diversity when Jim J.
expressed concerns about that.
  * The cxf-user mail list traffic has tripled since June, and the Chinese
language list (http://groups.google.com/group/cxf-zh) is now at over 60
people.  Many new users are participating.  However, cxf-dev traffic has
remained constant except for a HUGE spike (2.4x normal) in September.

Code aspects:
  * Released 2.0.1-incubator and 2.0.2-incubator - These were bug fixes from
2.0, but some minor new features were added.
  * Started discussing a roadmap for a 2.0.3-incubator release (bug fixes)
as well as a 2.1 release. (http://incubator.apache.org/cxf/roadmap.html)


=== FtpServer ===

Project name - Apache FtpServer

Description - Java based FtpServer

Date of entry - March, 2003

Progress since last report

* Only minor development efforts since last report due to commiter time
limitations, mostly focused on fixing bug reports and feature requests which
are coming in at a steady pace. More people seems to use FtpServer now that
activity is steady on the project.
Voted in a new commiter, Clint Foster. He is currently in progress of
setting up his account and get going with the practical details.
* Niclas Hedhman added as a much needed mentor to the project.
* Continous builds are in the works using the vmbuild1 server, with the aim
of producing snapshots which has been repeatably asked for

Top three items to resolve

1. Growth of community - we still need more active members
2. Getting snapshot builds published automatically by the build server
(minor details left to finish)
3. Getting s stable release out, need more active members to have good
review
   Getting a build server in place so that we can generate snapshots, they
have been requested by several people.


=== Ivy ===

Description - Ivy is a dependencies management tool mostly used in
combination with Apache Ant

Date of entry - October 23rd, 2006
Date of exit - October 11th, 2007

Item resolved:
  1. We have made research for Ivy trademark

Community aspects:
   * We have defined some plan for for the 2.0 release
   * We have seen new contributors on our dev mailing list (some ant
commiters, and some others)
   * Gilles Scokart has join the PPMC
   * We have voted to join ant as subproject
   * Ant TLP has voted to accept ivy as subproject

Code aspects:
   * Second release done
   * The coding activities has been been more limited, but our development
efforts still focus on the integration with maven repository, bug fixing,
and tutorials enhancements.


=== JSPWiki ===

The project has kicked off with some basic infrastructure now in place.

Mailing lists have been set up and subscriptions from the previous
mailing
lists are being transferred.

The svn repository is ready for code.

The JIRA project is set up.

The initial committers have sent ICLA's and accounts have been
requested.


=== RCF ===

RCF is a rich component set (ajax-style) for JSF. The RCF Wiki has been
created and all committers are now set. We started discussion on the
OpenSource efforts, how to manage it, since we need to provide a migration
path for current users. We are waiting for an import of a current code drop
into the repository.

=== Lucene.Net ===

Project name - Apache Lucene.Net

Description - Lucene.Net is a source code, class-per-class, API-per-API and
algorithmtic port of the Java Lucene search engine to the C# and .NET
platform utilizing Microsoft .NET Framework.

Date of entry - April, 2006

Progress since last report - We have seen good activities in the past three
months on the mailing list (both the dev and user).  Unlike in the past,
where I was taking care of all fixes in the code in preparation to a
release, I have seen considerable patches submitted by the community to
resolve open issues in Lucene.Net 2.1 work.  This is very encouraging and I
would like to suggest to the community to vote on adding one of the active
patch submitter as a committer.

Code aspects - Code is very stable with current "beta" version of 2.1 which
we expect to release in the next few weeks.

Community aspects - We have good followers and the past three months have
shown good commitments for submitting patches.

Top three items to resolve -

1. Growth of community - while this has been improving, we still need more
active members, specially those who submit patches.

2. Release Apache Lucene.Net 2.1 and start working on 2.2 / 2.3.

3. Vote in a new committer.

=== Qpid ===

The Apache Qpid Project provides an open and interoperable, multiple
language implementations of the Advanced Messaged Queuing Protocol (AMQP)
specification

Date of entry to the Incubator : 2006-09

Top three items to resolve before graduation

We aborted the M2 release vote mid way due to some key bugs. We are building
new RC's and will re-vote. Once M2 is out we will seek graduation.

Resolved:

1. There don't seem to be any major issues currently, or items that need to
be raised. Most notable is that the Qpid community and users have had quite
a lot of debate on code and practices in the last period. Some debates where
quite intense, but all very productive furthering team work and community.

* Any legal, cross-project or personal issues that still need to be
addressed?

From last report:
The whole project has not gone through release review and the license files
and notices need to be checked for all languages and components.

Done - Legal review was done prior to M2 vote for the full code base. M2
vote was aborted for key bug, and is being restarted Oct 8th.

* Latest developments.

 * Since entering into incubation we have had one release of the java code
base (M1).
 * We have migrated our java build system from ant to maven.
 * Development has been moving forward. with improvements in memory
footprint management passing the JMS TCK in with the java broker.
 * Addition of .NET client
 * Successfully voted to give 7+ new committers access rights
 * Successfully voted to give a new member contributor rights to cwiki.
 * The creation of the Web site
 * General progress on all code bases
 * Created python test suite
 * Added Ruby language support
 * We have stabilized our M2 release, voted, aborted vote - and re-vote Oct
8th
 * Lots of code and clean up and new functionality
 * Increase in user mail to the point of requesting and creating a user list
 * Requests from other projects to integrate with us
 * Building M3 / V1 if graduated.

* Plans and expectations for the next period?

During the next period, once we have M2 out I believe we will see if we can
graduate.


=== Sanselan ===

The project has kicked off with some basic infrastructure now in place.

Mailing lists have been set up. The structure of the project has been
discussed; plans are to use maven using Jackrabbit as a model.

A site was created using Confluence.

The svn repository has had the first code drop. Most of the code from then
original base has been committed.

The JIRA project is set up and the initial code drop was posted for review.

The initial committers have been given access to the repository.


=== Sling ===

Sling is a framework to develop content centric web applications based on
the idea of modularizing the rendering of HTTP resources.

Sling entered incubation on September 5th, 2007.

Community

 * Proper wiki/web page created by Felix Meschberger based on the Apache
Felix setup by Marcel Offermans and Ronald Spierenburg.
 * Juan's committer account has been setup
 * Apache Sling will be present at the ApacheCon US 07 with a Feather Talk.
 * Upcoming will be a discussion on when we should cut a first release.

Software

 * Discusssion is taking place to simplify the current "Component API" and
to remove interfaces which are more or less duplicate to the Servlet API
used and extended by Sling.
 * A "sample" project has been added to show some features of Sling.

Issues before graduation

 * Make an incubating Sling release
 * Grow a more diverse community (so far only commits from Day employees)

Licensing and other issues

 * none

=== Tika ===

Tika is a toolkit for detecting and extracting metadata and structured text
content from various documents using existing parser Libraries. Tika entered
incubation on March 22nd, 2007.

Community

There have been a number of positive items within Tika during the last few
months. The traffic on the Tika mailing list has increased significantly
(with typically 2, 3 questions, and 1 or 2 commits every day, or every other
day), and there have been a lot of recent inquiries from external projects
wanting to collaborate with Tika (including Aperture, PDFBox and a fellow
developing a JSon library currently hosted at Google code). In addition,
Tika's architecture has become a recent discussion of interest (as we'll see
below).

We recently elected Keith Bennett as a new committer to Tika. Keith has been
spearheading many of the new patches committed to Tika, as well as
participating in discussions about the architecture, and future direction of
the project.

Tika will be represented at the "Fast Feather" track at Apache Con US by
Jukka Zitting. The rest of the community is helping to create the content
for the presentation. The abstract is listed below:

Tika is a new content analysis framework borne from the desire to factor our
commonality from the Apache Nutch search engine framework. Tika provides a
mime detection framework, an extensible parsing framework and metadata
environment for content analysis. Though in its nascent stages, progress on
Tika has recently taken shape and the project is nearing a stable 0.1
release. In this talk, we'll describe the core APIs of Tika and discuss its
use in several distinct domains including search engines, scientific data
dissemination and an industrial setting.


Development

There have been a flurry of JIRA issues and code activity [1] including 47
issues currently in JIRA, with 32 resolved issues, 14 closed issues, and 2
open major/minor issues in progress).

Tika's Parser interface (one of its key components) has just undergone a
major overhaul led by Jukka Zitting, and Chris Mattmann has recently
contributed a MimeType system (with help from fellow Apache Nutch committer
Jerome Charron) to Tika. We also cleaned up and refactored large parts of
the rest of the code (removing references to LuisLite and branding the
project wherever possible with the Tika name), in preparation for an
upcoming 0.1 release.

Chris Mattmann has led an effort to carve out the existing MimeType
detection system in Apache Nutch [2] and replace it with Tika's improved
MimeType detection system. There is a patch sitting in JIRA right now [3],
and barring objections, Nutch will rely on Tika for its MimeType detection
abilities.

Also active recently were committers Bertrand Delacretaz, Sami Siren and
Rida Benjelloun, committing patches and improvements wherever needed.


Issues before graduation

No changes since our last report: the Tika project is still at an early
stage of incubation. We need to continue bringing in the initial codebases
and are targeting an initial incubating release (0.1) probably within the
next month. We also need to work on growing the community and figuring out
how to best interact with external parser projects.


 1. http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TIKA
 2. http://lucene.apache.org/nutch/
 3. http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/NUTCH-562


=== TripleSoup ===

TripleSoup is intended to provide an RDF store, tooling to work with that
database, and a REST web interface to talk to that database using SPARQL,
implemented as an apache webserver module.

TripleSoup has voted itself into dormant mode. The main reason the project
did not quite materialize seems to be that we don't have enough people with
sufficient interest, need, and time to make this really take off.


=== UIMA ===

UIMA is a component framework for the analysis of unstructured content such
as text, audio and video. UIMA entered incubation on October 3, 2006.

Some recent activity:

  * Version 2.2 was released 8/2007, our second incubator release.  This one
went without a hitch.
  * We're currently discussing the next release, which will likely be mostly
a bug fix release with only minor new features.

Items to complete before graduation:

  * We still need to attract more new committers.  We're trying to spark
even more activity in the sandbox to get people to contribute.

Community:

  *  We have recently welcomed our first new committer, Jorn Kottman.  Jorn
contributed and continues working on an Eclipse based editor.  He also made
contributions to our build process and design discussions.
  *  There's a good amount of traffic on both the dev and user list.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache James Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Maven Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Releases
========
We cut six new minor releases: 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.1.1, 1.1.2 and
1.1.3.  The new releases contain backward-compatible minor
improvements and several bug fixes.  We didn't announce the news for
1.0.6 and 1.1.3, but it's on the way.

Community
=========
Mike Heath, long time MINA committer, has shown his continuing
contribution to the project, and has been promoted to be a PMC member.

Maarten Bosteels, another long time community member and document
contributor, has been added to our committer list.

Niclas Hedman, the mentor of the FTPServer project in the Incubator,
asked about the possibility of hosting the FTPServer project under
MINA project.  All PMC members expressed positive opinion, so we are
going to start a vote for adopting the FTPServer project.

As the MINA core itself becomes more and more mature, people started
to ask about out-of-the-box protocol codecs for well-known protocols
such as HTTP, FTP, SMTP and ISO 8583 which will potentially boost up
server development in an order of magnitude.  We agreed that AsyncWeb
(received software grant), FTPServer (under incubation) and ISO 8583
(need to contact the existing community) are going to be a great
addition to the project.  Jeff Genender, the Geronimo committer and
member, also donated HTTP client module for MINA.  Of course, all
these additions should occur in the manageable extent, and we believe
we can.

Due to the massive class renaming and refactoring, we are getting many
questions about disappeared classes recently.  It means much more
people than we expected are using the development branch, and it can
possibly lead to complaints of the users.  Releasing 2.0.0-M1, the
first milestone of the next generation of MINA, as soon as possible
will remedy situation.

Due to the high flexibility and generic API, users often find
themselves difficulty in choosing the right way to implement a
protocol codec.  We need to improve documentation on this area to
reduce the ratio of the questions in the mailing list.

Our web site has been revamped to attractive more people.  We also
added a link to Nabble.com mailing list archive for those who are not
used to the mailing list.

Features
========
Julien Vermillard, our most active committer and PMC member, added
preliminary support for APR transport.  This means MINA now can
utilize ASF's high-performance and cross-platform library for network
operations.  All the existing MINA applications will benefit from this
thanks to the highly abstract nature of MINA API.

Trustin Lee refactored the trunk massively to make implementing a new
transport very easily.  Julien's APR transport will be the first
customer of this change.  Thanks to this change, a lot of code
duplication has been removed.

Maarten Bosteels added MDC injection filter that helps to create more
understandable communication logs.

A brand new asynchronous HTTP client was contributed by Jeff Genender
and integrated into MINA codebase by Mark Webb

Issues
======
As OSGi framework becomes a buzzword in the market, people keeps
asking about providing OSGi bundles for MINA artifacts.  We've been
relying on the Maven 2 plugin provided by the Felix project, but we
dropped the support because it doesn't work pretty well with
multi-project layout.  We temporarily concluded to wait for the
plugin to fix the bug.

Logging framework, again, arose as an issue.  Users seem to have
difficulties configuring SLF4J, so we added a dedicated page for
configuring SLF4J for MINA in our documentation section.

Most PMC members agreed on moving Niklas's state machine module to the
trunk.  Strictly speaking, it doesn't depend on MINA core, but it is
very clear that it is designed to work very well with MINA and
protocol implementation.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

Summary
=======
 * Active community, no additions
 * First releases of JSF 1.2 core
 * New releases of component library Trinidad
 * First release of MyFaces Orchestra
 * JSR-301 code donation by Oracle

Community
=========
 * no new committers since last report
 * no new PMC members since last report

MyFaces Core (JSF 1.1)
===================
 * No new release since last report

MyFaces Core (JSF 1.2 branch)
=========================
 * First official release 1.2.0 on July 17, 2007

MyFaces Tomahawk
================
 * No new release since last report

MyFaces Tobago
==============
 * No new release since last report, 1.0.12 is currently being prepared

MyFaces Trinidad (JSF 1.1)
======================
 * Two new releases since last report, latest 1.0.3 on Sep 30, 2007

MyFaces Trinidad (JSF 1.2 branch)
============================
 * One new release since last report: 1.2.2 on Sep 6, 2007

MyFaces Orchestra
================
 * The MyFaces Orchestra sub project was initiated by Mario Ivankovits
and is run by a diligent community. It is a small library that eases
development of web applications that perform a lot of persistence.
 * First official release of the core module on Oct 12, 2007

JSR-301 code donation
==================
 * We are currently handling another Oracle code donation of the JSR-301
(JSF 1.2 portlet bridge) reference implementation [1], [2]

  [1] http://incubator.apache.org/ip-clearance/jsr-301-ri.html
  [2] https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MYFACES-1664


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache ODE Project

There are no specific issue relevant to the board at the moment.

* Release

We're preparing a minor release 1.1.1 to distribute the small fixes
we've made here and there since 1.1.

* Development

There's been a lot of discussion in the community around the 
simplification of ODE. Our problems is mostly that WS-BPEL is a 
complex standard layered on top of WSDL that's another complex 
standard (without mentioning SOAP and WS-I). We'd like to introduce
a small and simpler DSL (that we dubbed SimPEL) that should be more
or less equivalent to BPEL but much easier to write and far less
verbose (no XML whatsoever). Along the same lines we're going to make
an embeddable version of ODE that can be instantiated directly from
Java code.

* Community

Tammo van Lessen has been voted in the ODE PMC.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache OpenEJB Project

OpenEJB 3.0 beta 1 released
Completed Export Control (Cryptography) process
Completed integration with Tomcat 6
Expanded documentation and examples
Activity on the user list has increased slightly since the release


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache OpenJPA Project

Highlights

OpenJPA has shipped its first release as a TLP, called OpenJPA 1.0.0.

There are no board issues at the moment.

Community

OpenJPA email continues its strong activity on both the dev and user
aliases.

OpenJPA will be presenting a Fast Feather talk at ApacheCon US 2007.

Governance

The PMC has voted to grant commit privileges to Albert Lee (allee8285@a.o).
The PMC continues to track contributors with an eye toward making them
committers, and committers PMC members.

Releases

OpenJPA 1.0.0 has shipped. A maintenance branch 1.0.x (yes, really)
currently is tracking bugs fixed in the trunk and currently has a few
dozen patches. Once a need for a release is identified, a volunteer
will be recruited to release the update while work goes on in the trunk.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache ServiceMix Project

This report for October is the first report since ServiceMix graduation
last month.

ServiceMix resources have not been moved yet. Hopefully everything will
be sorted out soon.

We have released our first non incubating version of ServiceMix, the 
3.1.2  version, on September 25th.  We are currently preparing for our
next big release, ServiceMix 3.2, which is planned for the end of
October. Work has started on the next major version 4.0 which will be
based on OSGi.

On the community side, both developer and user community are very
active. A new committer has been voted in.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Shale Project

A quiet quarter (actually only two months, since last quarter's report
was late), with a few bugfixes but no major forward motion towards a
release.  Questions on the mailing lists are relatively few but are
getting answered.

No issues that require board attention need to be raised.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

There has been a lot of activity over the last quarter, especially on
Struts 2. We released Struts 2.0.9 as GA, which includes an important
security fix, and released Struts 1.3.9 as Beta. Our registry of Struts 2
plugins continues to grow, with 30 distinct plugins now registered, many
written by developers outside the project. The number of authors
contributing to our official documentation wiki also continues to grow.

On the infrastructure side, the Struts security alias, mentioned in last
quarter's report, has now been set up, and Planet Struts was the first "PMC
Planet" to be created, thanks to Sam Ruby and Ted Husted. Prompted by
infrastructure@, we handed back 1.6GB of disk space on people.a.o that we
didn't actually need.

At ApacheCon US 2007 in Atlanta next month, two tutorials and one session
will focus on Struts 2, and we expect at least six Struts committers to be
in attendance. A session on Struts 2 will also be presented at OS Summit
Asia 2007.

During this quarter, we have added three new committers (Matt Raible, Dave
Newton, and Brian Pontarelli) and two new PMC members (Henri Yandell and
Antonio Petrelli).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Organization

  The Tapestry PMC has voted in another new member, Dan Adams, who expects
  to concentrate on Tapestry 5 development.

  Howard Lewis Ship finally figured out how to properly administer messages
  to the Tapestry private mailing list, which has really streamlined the
  process of adding new users.

Tapestry 4.1

  Tapestry 4.1 has continued to stabilize and evolve, with new 4.1.3
  release now available. The upcoming 4.1.4 release should continue to
  provide more bug fixes / performance improvements / new components and
  JavaScript based widgets.

  It is expected that Tapestry 4 development will continue for some time
  but mostly be concentrated around minor improvements and bug fixes -
  until more of the core T4 developers have had time to transition over to
  Tapestry 5. The Tapestry 5 Ajax features being finalized will accelerate
  this process.
 
  OGNL

    The OGNL release cycle has now more or less started to mirror the
    Tapestry 4 release cycle, so the same sorts of things have been
    happening there as in Tapestry 4. Tons of bug fixes / performance
    improvements and the addition of java 5 support (besides one varargs
    bug) have also silently made their way in to the last 2.7.1 release of
    OGNL.

    It was suggested on the Struts dev list a while back that it might be
    nice to have OGNL moved in to the ASF to make it easier for more
    project developers to participate. It was suggested that the decision
    would have to be made by the controllers of OpenSymphony (who currently
    store the source), but the idea has merit. Not sure what - if any -
    other interest there is in moving OGNL into the ASF, so it looks like
    that concept is dead in the water unless someone else more motivated
    speaks up.

  JavaScript

    Several changes on the way JavaScript is used by Tapestry have been
    made. These allow users to integrate their preferred JavaScript/Ajax
    library in place of the one provided (Dojo Toolkit).

Tapestry 5

  Tapestry 5 progress is still a bit slow, but has picked up just in the
  last couple of weeks, and is expected to return to a reasonably brisk
  pace shortly. However, the road map has been extended out as the Ajax
  features are still missing (partly from debate over which Ajax framework
  to embrace).

New Snapshot build / documentation process

  Nightly builds (via a Maven snapshot repository) and documentation (at
  http://tapestry.formos.com/nightly/tapestry5) are now available for
  Tapestry 5. The goal here is to publish snapshot versions of both
  software and documentation, so as to keep the main Apache site consistent
  with the latest stable releases -- this was getting to be a problem, with
  documentation on the main web site "ahead" of the latest non-snapshot
  releases.

  It is expected that Tapestry 4 will also eventually use this resource as
  well.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

As always, there isn't a lot of activity in Tcl land, however there
has been a bit of an uptick, which has been something of a pleasant
surprise.  Massimo Manghi has been voted as a committer and a part of
the PMC, and there is another person we're keeping an eye on for
committer status for Rivet.   There has also been an increase in
discussion lately on the list, which is another good sign.

Nothing needs the board's attention at this time.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Web Services Board Report October 2007

== Notable Happenings project-wide

Dims decided to step down as WS PMC chair. A formal vote of thanks, with
a great outpouring of +1 goodness, was held to thank him for his long
and hard work.

Glen Daniels was nominated and voted as the new chair.  As a result of 
the switcheroo (which occurred just before the board mtg), we didn't get 
our September report in, and thus this October one.

The rest of the report is by-subproject.  If a subproject doesn't
contain specific information, the developers didn't contribute any, 
which generally means that nothing particularly notable is going on 
there, but may also imply a dearth of active community members.  Dims 
began a process of pruning and vetting back before the chair switch, and 
it is my plan to follow through there, pushing to get projects into a 
functional development and reporting cycle.  We should at least be 
getting solid acks from each subproject that there's nothing interesting 
to report. :)

== Kandula

Apache Kandula is an implementation of Web Services Coordination, Atomic
Transaction and Business Activity protocols. The project provides 
implementations for both Apache Axis (kandula-1 branch) and Apache Axis2 
(kandula-2 branch) platforms.

== Apache Axis

Apache Axis is a web services framework implementing the W3C SOAP standard.

[Notable Happenings]

No major new contributions toward a 1.5 release, but Bjorn Townsend is
still working on this as time permits. Bjorn is also working on cleaning 
up the 900+ open issues in the Axis 1.x JIRA and get rid of the cruft.

[Miscellaneous]

A few general statistics:

    * 1 new critical reported since July
    * 4 new blockers reported since July
    * 7 new major bugs reported since July
    * 2 new minor bug since July

== Apache Axis C++

Apache Axis is effort to implement Axis architecture in C++. Apache
Axis/C++ can be used to provide and consume Web Services.

[Miscellaneous]

Working on fixing bugs in AXIS C++ in preparation for 1.6 release.

== Apache Scout

Apache Scout is an implementation of the JSR 93 (JAXR), which is a java
API to XML registries such as jUDDI.

[Notable Happenings]

Scout was mostly in maintenance mode this quarter. After we do a jUDDI 
release we're planning on putting out and 1.0rc2 release to clean up the 
remaining issues.

[Code releases [since last report]]

1.0rc1

== Apache jUDDI

jUDDI (pronounced "Judy") is an open source Java implementation of the
Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI) specification 
for Web Services.

[Notable Happenings]

We're ramping up for a 2.0 release, and lots of outstanding issues have 
been resolved in JIRA. The final two issues are relates to moving to 
Axis2 as our WebService implementation.

== Apache Woden incubator

Woden is an open source Java implementation of the W3C WSDL 2.0
specification.

== Apache Rampart

Rampart provides the WS-Security and WS-SecureConversation support for
Apache Axis2 using Apache WSS4J as the base. The configuration model 
uses the WS-Policy framework and supports the WS-SecurityPolicy 
specification. The "Rahas" module in Rampart implements the WS-Trust
specification with a security token service implementation and a client 
API to carryout token exchanges with the security token service.

== Apache Rampart/C

Apache Rampart/C is the security module for Apache Axis2/C. It's an
effort to implement WS-Security Specification 1.0. Rampart/C also comes 
with an XML-Crypto library known as OMXMLSecurity. In addition Apache 
Rampart/C configurations are based on security policy assertions as per 
WS-Security Policy specification 1.1

[Code Releases [since the last report]]

Rampart/C 1.0.0 release. [WWW] http://ws.apache.org/rampart/c/

== Apache Sandesha2

Sandesha2 is an implementation of WS-ReliableMessaging specifications
for Apache Axis2. By using Sandesha2 you can add reliable messaging 
capability to the Web services you have hosted in Axis2. You can also 
use Sandesha2 with Axis2 client to interact with already hosted web 
services in a reliable manner.

[Code Releases [since the last report]]

Sandesha2 1.3 release on 10-08-2007.
http://ws.apache.org/sandesha/sandesha2/download.cgi

== Apache Sandesha2/C

Sandesha2/C is a C implementation of WS-ReliableMessaging 
specifications(both 1.0 and 1.1) for Apache Axis2/C projects. 
Sandesha2/C is inter operable with Axis2/Java implementation and .net 
implementations.

[Code Releases [since the last report]]

Sandesha2/C 0.91 on October 8th

== Apache Savan

Savan is a Publisher/Subscriber implementation for Apache Axis2.

== Apache Savan/C

Savan/C is a Publisher/Subscriber implementation for Apache Axis2/C
projects written in C Language.

[Notable Happenings]

Code freeze: 20th Sept 2007. Savan/C 0.90 to be released, at the end of
this month (Sept 2007)

== Apache Axis2/C

Apache Axis2/C is an effort to implement Axis2 architecture in C. Apache 
Axis2/C can be used to provide and consume Web Services.

[Notable Happenings]

We are preparing for for 1.1.0 release by end of this month (September 
2007). Other than minor bugfixes and memory leak fixes, new features for 
this (1.1.0) release include:

   1. WS-Policy implementation
   2. TCP Transport
   3. Improvements to Guththila parser to improve performance
   4. Improvements to Java tool, WSDL2C, that generates C code
   5. Basic HTTP Authentication

[Code releases [since last report]]

Apache Axis2/C 1.1.0 on September 30th

== Apache WSIF

Apache Web Services Invocation Framework (WSIF) is a simple Java API for
invoking Web services, no matter how or where the services are provided 
as long as it is described in WSDL.

WSIF is quiescent at this date.

== Apache Axis2

Apache Axis2 is the third generation Web service framework of the Apache
Web service stack.  It was designed to be a more performant, more 
extensible Web service engine. Axis2 has support for WS-Addressing, 
WS-RM (via Sandesha) and WS-Security (via Rampart).

[Notable Happenings]

Bugfixes, and good activity on user list.  Some early discussion of a 
1.4 release has occurred, with some ideas for features and improvements 
tossed around.

== Apache WS-Commons

Apache WS-Commons is a collection of projects that are primarily used as
parts of various WS projects but useful even outside the WS space. 
WS-Commons houses Apache Axiom - the streaming XML object model, Apache 
XmlSchema - an object model to manipulate XML schema documents, Apache 
Neethi - the WS-Policy implementation and various other smaller projects 
such as tcpmon.

[Notable Happenings]

General work to improve the frameworks in commons continues, fixing bugs
and adding features.

== Apache Muse

Apache Muse is a Java implementation of WS-ResourceFramework,
WS-Notification, and WS-DistributedManagement. It provides code 
generation tools and APIs that aid users in creating standards-compliant 
interfaces for manageable resources. Muse-based interfaces can be 
deployed in a J2EE or OSGi environment.

== Apache XML-RPC

Apache XML-RPC is a Java implementation of XML-RPC, a popular protocol 
that uses XML over HTTP to implement remote procedure calls.

[Notable Happenings]

A vote for XML-RPC 3.1 release was called in August.  A contributor 
(Kevin Brown) is working on a JMS integration.

== Apache Synapse

Apache Synapse is a easy-to-use and lightweight XML and Web Services
management and integration broker that can form the basis of a Service 
Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).

[Notable Happenings]

The team is preparing for the 1.1 release which is the next major 
release of the project after the 1.0 in early June. The 1.1 release is 
scehduled for the end of October/early November.

[Miscellaneous]

A new Apache VFS based file transport implementation, defect fixes and
other feature enhancements are currently in progress.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the October 17, 2007 board meeting.
