                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            April 25, 2007


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the Chair at 10:03.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar (arrived 10:05)
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker

    Directors Absent:

        Henri Yandell
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik

    Guests:

        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Bill Stoddard


 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of 

       See: board_minutes_2007_02_21.txt

       Tabled awaiting Geir's written summary.

    B. The meeting of 

       See: board_minutes_2007_03_28.txt

       Tabled awaiting Geir's written summary.

 4. Executive Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg had nothing to report this month.

    B. President [Sander]

       Sander reported that the Dell box has been acquired and the
       order for the Sun box has been closed. Costs will be inline
       with what was originally projected: around $40k (US).

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       For the sponsorship program, we have yet to receive our first
       installment from HP.  Further conversations to track down what broke
       down where in the billing process will continue with HP.  Discussions
       have begun with Covalent regarding their potential for an in-kind
       (non-cash) donation.

       On the PayPal front, the phishing scam continued and resulted in
       posting a page linked off our front page:
         http://www.apache.org/foundation/paypal-scam.html
       trying to explain the situation.  A trickle of complaints continue
       from various avenues and responses point at this page.

       The fiscal year closes at the end of the month, so my focus
       will soon shift to preparing the annual report.  I've had brief
       conversation with Karen from SFLC who will again be available to
       do a review of our report before submission for any assistance.

       I would also like to inform the Board that I do not intend to
       accept a nomination for Treasurer next year.  This is not a
       statement of time, but rather of interest - I feel the position
       has changed for the better since I have taken the position two years
       ago, but I would really like to see someone else fulfill these
       duties in the coming year.  I will certainly make myself
       available to ensure a transition occurs smoothly and promptly.
       As a matter of course, I will prepare and oversee the submission
       of the annual report for the about-to-close year.

       Current balances (as of 4/24/2007):

        Paypal             $  1,113.40 (+$    538.46)
        Checking           $ 16,325.07 (-$ 14,922.04)
        Savings            $203,317.62 (+$    484.64)
        Total              $220,756.09 (-$ 13,898.94)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       A quiet but steady month. It looks like June 5 - 7, 2007 for the next
       members meeting is the best fit, so I will be looking for final
       verification from the rest of the board before I make it official and
       start planning/organizing the meeting.
       
       We have received no correspondence that requires board attention.

 5. Other Reports

    A. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

       See Attachment 1

       Cliff indicated that, assuming the current "incompatibility"
       between GPLv3 and AL 2.0 is resolved, he does not foresee any
       further potential conflicts.

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. VP of JCP [Geir]

       See Attachment 2

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache Security Team Project [Mark Cox / Ken]

       See Attachment 3

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Travel Assistance Committee [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 4

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Conference Planning Project [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment 5

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache Audit Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment 6

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Public Relations Project [Jim Jagielski]

       See Attachment 7

       Approved by General Consent.

 6. Committee Reports

    A. Apache ActiveMQ Project [Brian McCallister / Henri]

       See Attachment A

       Approved by General Consent.

    B. Apache Beehive Project [Eddie O'Neil / Cliff]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent.

    C. Apache DB Project [Jean T. Anderson / Jim]

       See Attachment C

       Approved by General Consent.

    D. Apache Directory Project [Emmanuel Lecharny / Greg]

       See Attachment D

       There was discussion around the inclusion of a person's
       name in the board report, where the report was "less than
       flattering" towards that person. The general consent was
       that the issue was and is public knowledge within the
       development community and in the PMC and the inclusion
       of the name and issue shows a clear direct line of
       management and oversight from the development community
       all the way up to the board.

       Approved by General Consent.

    E. Apache Geronimo Project [Matt Hogstrom / Sander]

       See Attachment E

       Approved by General Consent.

    F. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas / Justin]

       See Attachment F

       It was noted that James is using Google analytics. It
       was asked if the ASF should have a single analytics account
       across all ASF projects/sites for better cross-host analysis
       and tracking. Justin indicated that he would investigate
       this and likely inform PMCs of this capability.

       Approved by General Consent.

    G. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl / Dirk]

       See Attachment G

       No report provided.

    H. Apache MINA Project [Trustin Lee / Sam]

       See Attachment H

       Approved by General Consent.

    I. Apache MyFaces Project [Manfred Geiler / Greg]

       See Attachment I

       Approved by General Consent.

    J. Apache Shale Project [Craig R. McClanahan / Justin]

       See Attachment J

       Approved by General Consent.

    K. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Jim]

       See Attachment K

       Justin asked if this indicated some need for build farms within
       the ASF. It was noted that OSU/OSL may be able to help with
       this.

       Approved by General Consent.

    L. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Cliff]

       See Attachment L

       Clarification of "OGNL" was provided: It is the OpenSymphony project,
       and Struts 2 (aka WebWork) depends on it rather heavily.

       Approved by General Consent.

    M. Apache Tcl Project [David N. Welton / Sander]

       See Attachment M

       Once again, the health of the Tcl project and community was
       discussed. It was agreed that Tcl is basically stable but static.
       It appears that oversight is still in place, they are providing
       reports to the board and that mailing lists, although low volume,
       are being monitored and followed. The board did not see any
       reason to deviate from the "status quo".

       Approved by General Consent.

    N. Apache Roller Project [Dave Johnson / Dirk]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent.

    O. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Henri]

       See Attachment O

       The board noted that, even though no progress has been made on
       the selection/election/approval of a new chair for the PMC,
       other healthy activity, such as adding new members to the PMC,
       exists. Although the board still expects a change in chair,
       it did not feel the need to "push" it for this month.

       Approved by General Consent.

    P. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Cliff]

       See Attachment P

       It was noted that this report was just to make up for the
       issues with xmlbeans-cxx from last month. Henri asked
       if the PMC was asking the board to close their subproject.
       Cliff will follow up with Cezar.

       Approved by General Consent.

    Q. Apache Felix Project [Richard Hall / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

       It was noted, with humor, that the Felix project has
       a new committer named Felix.

       Approved by General Consent.

    R. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Ken]

       See Attachment R

       The board liked the concept of "if no report is received, ask
       them if they want to be archived", mentioned in the report.

       Approved by General Consent.

 7. Special Orders

    A. Change the Apache Portable Runtime Project Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Garrett
       Rooney to the office of Vice President, Apache Portable Runtime
       Project, and

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the resignation
       of Garrett Rooney from the office of Vice President, Apache
       Portable Runtime Project;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Garrett Rooney is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the office
       of Vice President, Apache Portable Runtime Project, and

       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that William A. Rowe, Jr. be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Portable Runtime
       Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until
       death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or
       until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order 6A, Apache Portable Runtime Project Chair, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

    B. Update Apache Security Team Membership

       WHEREAS, the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) Board Commmittee,
       known as the Apache Security Team expects to better serve
       its purpose through the periodic update of its membership; and

       WHEREAS, the Apache Security Team is a Board-appointed committee
       whose membership must be approved by Board resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following ASF
       members be added as Apache Security Team members:

           Joe Orton <jorton@apache.org>
           Mark Thomas <markt@apache.org>

       Special Order 6B, Update Apache Security Team Membership, was
       approved by Unanimous Vote.

 8. Discussion Items

    A. Continued absence of reporting from VP of ConCom
    
       The board expressed its continued concern over the
       lateness or absence of ConCom reporting. Ken indicated
       that he is working on "rearranging" how ConCom operates
       to alleviate this problem (other ConCom members will
       be various conference "leads", for example).

    B. Set date of Annual Members Meeting to June 5 - 7, 2007.

       Jim suggested the dates of June 5 - 7, 2007 for the annual
       ASF Members Meeting, based on feedback from the membership.
       The board approved these dates. Jim will notify the membership
       and start the process of arranging the meeting.

 9. Review Outstanding Action Items

    None.

10. Unfinished Business

    None.

11. New Business

    None.

12. Announcements

13. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at 11:15am.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment 1: Report from the VP of Legal Affairs

As I mentioned in my post to the board@ list shortly after last Board
meeting, the FSF's third discussion draft of GPLv3 included a note
that GPLv3 would not be compatible with the Apache License due to the
indemnification provision.  Both Larry Rosen and I have been in touch
with the FSF and SFLC and expect this statement of incompatibility 
will soon be reversed without any change in the Apache License.

The Board approved my resolution to establish a Legal Affairs 
Committee at last month's meeting.  However, I have been lame in 
getting things started due to a shortage of available time in the last
few weeks.  I'll start getting the ball rolling this week.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 2: Report from the VP of JCP

This month we took the difficult step of sending an open
letter to Sun Microsystems regarding our impasse in the 
licensing of the JCK (the Java SE TCK) for Apache Harmony.
The letter was created with review and input of the membership
on the internal members list, and was posted for public 
consumption on April 10, 2007.  Copies are available in 
the foundation/Correspondence/JCP repository.  Copies
are also posted on the ASF JCP website 
(http://www.apache.org/jcp) and there also is a FAQ of
relevant information.  We have asked that Sun respond 
to the ASF in 30 days, and at the point, we've received
nothing but an acknowledgement of receipt by Jonathan
Schwartz.

In other areas, we continue to work in the ongoing EC-only
JSR-306 that is working to change the JSPA.  We continue to 
push for a change that requires TCK license transparency.
Further, the new Java EE 6 JSR (JSR-313) was withdrawn 
by Sun during the voting period due to questions regarding
licensing, including Field of Use.  Clearly the issue
of Field of Use is now in general awareness and important
to the EC members.

I'm happy to report that the ASF is once again a candidate
for "JCP Member of the Year", and results will be known
at JavaOne in two weeks.

Other than that, things are relatively quiet.  Projects are
using TCKs to certify their releases, and there are no other
significant issues to report to the board.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 3: Status report for the Apache Security Team Project

There continues to be a steady stream of reports of various kinds arriving
at security@apache.org. These continue to be dealt with promptly by the
security team. We have a proposed resolution for this board meeting to
expand the security team to include Joe Orton and Mark Thomas, both of
whom have been doing significant security-related work.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 4: Status report for the Apache Travel Assistance Committee

A budget of $10k US was preliminarily approved at last months
board meeting. It is expected that none will be spent at the
AC EU 2007 show. The committee will get an early start for
the US show however, in hopes of getting the word out that travel
assistance is available and creating a uniform process to obtain
and evaluate candidates.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 5: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning Project

ApacheCon US 2007 will be held in Atlanta, Georgia, at the Peachtree  
Westin Hotel, November 12-16. This includes the usual 2 days of  
tutorials and 3 days of main conference sessions.

The Call For Papers opened rather later than planned, due to a series  
of technical glitches and personal crises, but is currently open, and  
will close on Monday, April 30th. The ApacheCon Planners will meet in  
Amsterdam, following the conclusion of ApacheCon Europe, to review  
the submitted talks and select the schedule for Atlanta. There are  
currently 94 submissions, and we expect to have 72 session slots, in  
addition to the tutorial/training session slots.

The lead for ApacheCon US will be Rich Bowen. Other members of the  
team include Ken Coar, Noel Bergman and Lars Eilebrecht. I'm not  
certain at this point who else will be involved in that process, but  
it is likely that Justin Erencrantz and Noirin Plunkett will be  
involved in the planners meeting in Amsterdam.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 6: Status report for the Apache Audit Project

The Audit committee are currently inactive. The outstanding issue is
to find an external auditor for the ASF accounts, but this is not
actively being worked on.

It's assumed that we'll be offering Justin our time in the third
quarter to help on the tax return, including doing a final walkthrough
of the return before it is sent in.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment 7: Status report for the Apache Public Relations Project

Because of some of the training sessions at the AC EU 2007 show being
cancelled, Sally and I discussed the possibility of holding a "marketing
training" session for ASF committers (members preferred) during one of
those "open" slots. There was discussion regarding pricing, whether
holding such a session at the venue was an "efficient" use of funding and,
finally, how the costs associated with the session would he handled
(specifically, if the ASF could directly pay for that). Justin contacted
legal and they indicated that they did not see a problem or conflict with
this. At the latest it appears that we are currently awaiting an invoice
and letter from Delia and Charel that this is independent from our
ApacheCon contract and that this money is solely to facilitate committers
attending the media training.

KernelConcepts has requested, and received approval, to have another
shop in Germany resell their (KC's) already-approved T-shirt. KC will
also bring their donation status up-to-date.

The PRC was kept in-the-loop regarding 2 separate issues: the Open
Letter to Sun regarding the JCP (TCK license) and the need for
additional ApacheCon EU 2007 sponsors. Also handled were
the normal FAQ's regarding logo and trademark usage.

No progress on the maven.org trademark issue, as we are waiting to see
how the infrastructure discussion pans out.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache ActiveMQ Project

ActiveMQ has had an active month: voting in a new committer, John
Heitmann, and making two releases, ActiveMQ 4.1.1 - a bug fix release
of the Java server and clients, and the  ActiveMQ CPP Client 2.0.0 -
a major release of the C++ client.

A new component, Camel, has been initiated. Camel is a routing and
mediation engine which allows for describing message routing rules
for ActiveMQ, CXF, ServiceMix, and MINA.

The developer and user communities remain very active.

On a side note, a company, LogicBlaze, employing about a third of the
ActiveMQ committers has been acquired by IONA. It is not expected
that this will impact ActiveMQ directly, but as it affects a
significant percentage of the contributors, bears mentioning.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Beehive Project

Overall
======
The Beehive community has been generally quiet and hasn't moved
significantly in the last quarter.  There have been contributions of
new documentation and samples as well as some incremental bug fixing
and enhancements.  There were no new releases this quarter.

Community
=========
There continues to be a small community of committers and a handful of
traffic / questions / comments on user@; queries here are typically
answered in a reasonable time frame.  Adding committers is an ongoing
challenge -- the project feels somewhat mature and does not have
significant forward momentum.

No new committers / PMC members were added this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache DB Project

During January-March 2007 Apache DB added one committer, released
one product, processed two software grants, and started discussions
with the XML PMC regarding a potential move of Xindice to DB.

New committers:
  * Dag Wanvik (Derby)

Releases:
  * Torque released 3.3-RC2
  * Derby started discussing its next release.

Legal:
  * Two IBM software grants were processed for contributions to Derby.
    Note: these were done according to the Incubator's "short form" IP
    clearance process for expediency.

Projects:
  * Initial discussions occurred with the XML PMC regarding Xindice,
    and whether the developers would like to move to the DB PMC.  Next
    step is for the XML PMC to start discussions on the Xindice dev
    list.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache Directory Project

Technically I'm not the PMC chair anymore.  Emmanuel Lecharny is now the 
new Chair for Directory.  However we received word late that the resolution 
passed and Emmanuel may be detained over the weekend.  Also we don't want 
to miss the deadline for this report while providing the board with the 
information they need to properly conduct business in the upcoming meeting.  
If you'll permit me this will be my last board report. 


Community
-----------------

The biggest change has already been noted regarding the new PMC Chair.  
I will help Emmanuel acclimate into the role while we transition.  We 
(the PMC) are all confident in his abilities in this capacity. 

The community is really flourishing.  As mentioned before the MINA 
elevation to TLP status we had some worries that Directory would 
loose some steam but this was not at all the case.

We have more users and active committers than ever.  People are 
communicating very well on the ML list and collaboration is at a 
high point.

Some of us have been contacted privately by SUN engineers to participate 
on a new JSR for a client API for LDAP.  I have reported this to our PMC 
list and will bring this matter to the jcp-open mailing list so those 
wanting to get involved may do so through the proper channels.

A person was recently removed from the PMC for their unacceptable 
conduct has continued to participate and has rectified their behavior.  
The person is keeping conversations on the mailing list and informing us of
their intentions, documenting their changes and has ceased to dump code without 
informing us.  I think we have to keep and eye on this person but our actions 
seems to have stop their detrimental activities in it's tracks.  The outcome 
has been positive. 

Pierre Arnod Marcelot (PAM) has been added to the PMC.  No new committers 
since the last out of cycle board report last month.  Brett Porter and 
Vince Tence resigned from the PMC on their own accord due to an inability 
to contribute more time to our effort: we look forward to their return if 
life permits. 


Releases
-------------

We have released ApacheDS 1.0.1 (a bug fix release) and we are currently in 
the process of releasing the latest feature addition release of ApacheDS 
1.5.0.  This release includes the initial multimaster replication feature 
and the dynamic schema feature for the server not to mention many other 
enhancements.  It's the most functional and feature rich release of 
ApacheDS to date.  ApacheDS is getting to a point where we would be 
comfortable using it in production for a large directory.

We just released version 0.7 of LDAP Studio and this project is taking off 
fast.  The users are growing and I suspect we're going to add a few new 
committers over the course of the next couple months.  

Triplesec has yet to be released.  We have much work to do to make it 
releasable WRT compliance with ASF releases. 


Conclusions/Summary
--------------------------------

In general the Directory Project is doing very well.  The community is 
healthy and vibrant and PMC has solved our most important issue without 
any observable collateral damage.  Emmanuel can't complain that he's 
stepped into a mess :).

We should expect a strong quarter with several releases, new additions 
to our user and developer base and possibly a couple of new PMC members.

With this last report I will introduce the new Chair on our MLs.  

Thank you,
Alex Karasulu


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

The Apache Geronimo Project has been mostly focusing on achieving
Java EE 5 functionality for its 2.0 release. We have been refining
our release procedures and as a result have been fairly consistent at
releasing monthly Milestones to make our work in progress available
to users.

Version 1.2 is nearing its readiness to release but has been delayed
due to external dependencies that have not been fulfilled.

Collaboration with several other projects in Apache is going on which
includes Axis 2, OpenJPA, OpenEJB, CXF and Yoko.
Releases

    * Geronimo
      2.0-M2 and 2.0-M3 were released in January and February respectively.
      Continuing the "Drive to 5" and hope to have a developer release by 
      May.
    * Geronimo Javamail
      New release of the javamail jars were released. The new versions are 
      geronimo-javamail_1.3.1_mail-1.1, geronimo- 
      javamail_1.3.1_provider-1.1, and geronimo-javamail_1.3.1_spec-1.3.

Devtools
Xbean
Website

Migrated the authoring of the website to Confluence. GMOxSITE space
can be updated by Geronimo committers only and uses autoexport plugin
to create the HTML version that is served from minotaur.
Some content on the website such as plugin repo lists, schemas,
images are still maintained via the original svn repo.

JUGs and Conferences

    * Apache Geronimo v2 - a Java EE 5 application server by Jacek
Laskowski at Studencki Festiwal Informatyczny (SFI) - Krakow, Poland
March 8-10, 2007
    * More, faster, easier with Java EE 5 and Apache Geronimo v2 by
Jacek Laskowski at Software Development GigaCon 2007 - Warszawa,
Poland, March 22-23, 2007

Policy Changes

    * TCK Access
      The PMC approved a policy allowing read access to our TCK
framework for any Apache committer that has signed the NDA for access
to the Sun TCK. There is a 72-hour waiting period for non-Geronimo
committers so the PMC membership can comment. Non-committers are
granted read-only access (and can earn karma) while Geronimo
committers are granted Read / Write access.

Subprojects

    * DayTrader
      Currently working on development to provide an EJB 3.0 version
      of this benchmark
    * DevTools
    * XBean

Community

New Committers:

    * Jarek Gawor
    * Rakesh Midha
    * Donald Woods

PMC Additions:

    * Prasad Kashyap
    * Dain Sundstrom


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache James Project

Here's what I've got on the James project:

* No releases (though about half way thru a vote, so maybe by the time
  the board meets).
* No new committers or PMC members.
* Project guidelines approved by the PMC.
* Updated website (doing better to organize all the libraries/projects)
  with Google analytics in place.

As for overall community health, I hope Justin can share his insights
with the board.  He has been a great help to calm and guide the group.
I can't say I feel very good about things at this point as there are one
or two people who just don't want to get along.  I'm frustrated and
dismayed.

On the bright side, we've got guidelines in place, 1200 downloads a
week, a sense of what is and isn't appropriate, and Robert crunching
through some refactoring that could improve and maybe remove an
underlying thorn in the side of the project.

I would appreciate any feedback (good or bad) you could give the me or
the PMC.  I would also request that Justin continue to monitor the
project for the time being.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Maven Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache MINA Project

Apache MINA is a Java network application framework, which enables
rapid development of high-performance and high-quality network
applications.

Releases
========
There was no release this month, but vote for two new releases (1.0.3
and 1.1.0) are in progress.  Apache MINA 1.0.3 is a bug fix release
and 1.1.0 is a Java 5 port of 1.0.x.

Community News
==============
7 more bugs has been reported and fixed since 1.0.2.  We are still
getting a a lot of questions especially about implementation of
protocol codecs and performance tuning.  I wrote the table of contents
for the documentation  to promote community contribution from users,
and documentation contributors such as Mark Webb seem to be interested
in helping fill the unwritten part.  However, it's progressing very
slowly, and we expect we will receive as many question as before
meanwhile.

MINA's datagram (UDP/IP) implementation didn't get much attention than
socket (TCP/IP) implementation so far, but Greg Duffy, our community
member, is showing his interest in revamping the datagram
implementation for higher performance like the socket implementation
fulfilled.  It is great to have people who uses various transport
types in the community, and it will lead us to more solid product.

Issues
======
There's no critical community issue this month.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project

Summary
=======
 * Active Community, some additions
 * JSF 1.2 compatible MyFaces making progress but slower than expected
 * Release stability and release cycles are getting better

Community
=========
 * New PMC members: Bernd Bohmann, Volker Weber, Gerald Muellan, Wendy Smoak
 * New committer: Paul McMahan
 * Still very active user and developer community

JSF 1.2
=======
 * JSF 1.2 (JSR-252) development branch is making progress but is
   still in an early (pre TCK test) stage.

MyFaces Core
============
 * A new stable MyFaces Core (API + Impl) release 1.1.5 was published
   on February 16, 2007.

MyFaces Tomahawk
================
 * A new MyFaces Tomahawk release candidate 1.1.5 was voted on. Due to
   missing license files in some artifacts a second release candidate is
   currently prepared and will (hopefully) go out in the next days.

MyFaces Tobago
=============
 * Latest MyFaces Tobago sub project (JSF component library) release
   1.0.10 was published on March 12, 2007.

Conclusion
==========
All in all we are making good progress and it seems we have overcome
our release problems (which where the main concern in our last report).
We now have detailed release diaries that are a good starting point
for a precise release procedure documentation. So the next core and
tomahawk releases should be possible with less pain.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache Shale Project

Overview
-------------

The Apache Shale TLP was created in June 2006 to further the development
of the Shale Framework, a web application framework built on top of
JavaServer Faces.  This is our latest quarterly report.

PMC and Committer Changes
--------------------------------------------

We have added one new committer this quarter:

* Hermod Opstvedt, who has initially focused on Shale Clay,
  as well as Norwegian translations for our resource bundles,
  tutorials, and being generally helpful across the board.

Current Development Activities
--------------------------------------------

The 1.0.4 release has occurred, with slightly increased uptake and a
few bug reports.  Slow progress has been made towards dealing with
these concerns, due primarily to busyness on the part of the various
committers.

We anticipate that the Spring and Tiles plugins will be updated to
reflect the most recent versions of their dependent frameworks in the
near future.

Community
-----------------
The Shale developer community continues to operate harmoniously,
both within the project and with other projects (such as Struts and
MyFaces) where there is substantial overlap in committer base, and
many of the committers are active on multiple projects simultaneously.
There are no community issues to raise to the Board's attention.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

This quarter, we made up for the absence of releases in the previous
quarter, with GA releases of both Struts 1.3.8 and Struts 2.0.6. The
latter is particularly notable, since it is the first GA release of the
Struts 2 framework, thus marking an important milestone for the project.
With a GA release in the wild, we hope to see increased adoption of this
new framework, with a corresponding growth in the community.

Since the Apache Tiles top-level project was established by the board in
December, our Tiles colleagues have completed their move out of Struts and
into their own environment. Of course, there continues to be some overlap
in the developers and communities, and we are working with our Tiles
colleagues to ensure that Tiles integration with Struts remains strong.

Thanks to our friends at Atlassian, we now have a hosted Bamboo continuous
integration system, providing us with regular reports on the status of our
builds. After a spate of build breakages earlier in the quarter, this has
helped us identify issues more quickly.

In this last quarter, we have added Paul Benedict to our PMC, and added
four new committers, namely Philip Luppens, Tom Schneider, Musachy
Barroso, and Henri Yandell.

Finally, we have added some spiffy new icons to the Struts 2 home page:
http://struts.apache.org/2.x/index.html


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Tapestry development is continuing in the 4.1 and 5 branches.

Organization:

The board has alerted the Tapestry PMC of irregularities in the voting 
and release of the early Tapestry 4 and Tapestry 5 releases. The 
clarifications has been embraced, with a mix of procedural and technical 
changes (such that we may "vote on the binaries"). We should see the 
first such proper vote coming soon, for Tapestry 5.0.4.

The Tapestry PMC is also looking to extend the size of the Tapestry 
committer community. Several active users meet the qualifications 
and a vote is expected soon.

Tapestry 4.1:

Development of the 4.1.X series continues with feature improvements, 
bug fixes and the elimination of "quirks".   In addition, Jesse Kuhnert 
has taken a leadership role in the development of the OGNL library on 
which Tapestry depends, and has been implementing an OGNL-to-bytecode 
compiler that will result in about a 30x improvement of performance of 
OGNL expressions (which account for at least 50% of the time spent 
processing a Tapestry request).  It is expected that new OGNL library, 
release 2.7, will be nailed down within a few more weeks.

The OGNL changes will be useful well outside the domain of Tapestry; 
Jesse has been in active communication with Patric Lightbody on 
furthering OGNL, potentially for use with WebWork, Struts 2 and 
elsewhere.

Tapestry 5:

Tapestry 5 continue to steam forward, adding new features and 
documentation.  A bit of effort has been expended over the last few weeks 
to simplify the IoC container, adapting ideas from Google's Guice.  Other 
simplifications are targetting to streamline integration with Spring, an 
important feature for the majority of users.

User contributed patches have simplified and improved deployment of 
Tapestry application into a number of application servers (ironing 
out tricky class loading issues that are application-server specific).

Beyond Apache, outside users are already creating reusable Tapestry 5 
component libraries, a very encouraging development.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache Tcl Project

The Tcl world has not moved significantly in the last couple of
weeks. As usual: problems/questions reported on the mailing lists
have been dealt with pretty responsively.

A deeper discussion relating to Apache Tcl's future was started by
members of the board (what to do with a project that is not really
actively pushed), but not much has been decided. Generally, the
suggestion to move to a static site (to take load off infra) was well
received, but nothing has been done in that direction yet. Other than
that, the discussion stalled after David W. asked about how to
proceed.

My cristal ball says: if nobody explicitly asks us to do something,
not much will happen to change the situation in the near future.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Roller Project

This month the Roller project is working on multiple upcoming
releases and post-graduation work. The community is active and
getting along well and we accepted a patch from a new contributor.
Here are the details.

Upcoming Releases: Roller 4.0

The original plan for Roller 4.0 was to make "infrastructure" changes
including upgrades to Java SE 5, new non-Hibernate back-end, Struts
2, Velocity 1.5 and XMLRPC 3.0. Now the plans are expanding to
include some more features to be implemented by Sun and IBM. At this
point consensus seems to point to a May release for 4.0.

While the rest of the 4.0 work taking place in the trunk, the new
back-end work is happing in a separate branch and kept in sync on at
least a weekly basis. We still have not made the final decision about
which persistence technology to use. The JPA implementation is
passing 100% of unit test. It's still possible that IBM will
contribute an iBatis implementation in time for 4.0.

Upcoming Releases: Roller 3.1 release

We've been having some difficulties getting the Roller 3.1 release
out. We've been creating release candidates for a couple of months
now, but testing takes time and contributors have not been stepping
up to test each release. Another RC will go out this week and
hopefully we'll start the final vote.

Upcoming Releases: Roller 2.3.1 and Roller 3.0.1 patch releases

A number of XSS security vulnerabilities were reported in Roller 2.3
and 3.0. We worked with the reporter to detail and fix the problems
and prepared "patch" releases 2.3.1 and 3.0.1. We have release
candidates ready for those releases, but again, we're having problems
finding time to test them. We're considering announcing these release
candidates more widely (on blogs, etc.) to encourage more testing and
feedback.

Post graduation work

We're still picking up the post-graduation pieces. Mailing lists,
SVN, wiki and the website have all been moved over to TLP. The next
step is to move the JIRA issue tracker over to Apache infrastructure.

Community

The community is getting along fine with lots of discussion on the
topic of new features. No new committers this month, but we do have a
new contributor. Thanks to new contributor Sedat Ciftci, who
contributed a significant new patch for account activation via email.
It was accepted, committed to trunk and will be included in the 4.0
release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

New committers: Philip Mark Donaghy

New PMC Members: Elliot Metsger.

JSR-286 kept publishing open drafts about the ongoing results.

Raphael Luta went to emeritus in the PMC. Raphael has been around since
the very beginnings of the project, and designed the original and
current PSML markup in jetspeed, as well as a number of important inputs
in what later became JSR-168. We will miss his insight and good hand.

We had a healthy discussion on compliance of new formal requirements on
releases, that prompted major cooperation between different areas of the
project. This came as pluto, bridges and jetspeed releases all were not
following the last requirements about headers.

Pluto is moving fast with JSR-286 getting close to completion, and
discussions about how draft implementations coming from the JSR process
are to be integrated in the current code base.

Code Releases
Jetspeed released 2.1
Pluto released 1.1.0, 1.1.1 and 1.1.2. 1.1.3 is being voted.

The process of electing a new Chair has been started. It is proceeding
slowly, and I hope the next report can have a proposal for a new Chair
resolution attached.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

Following the request of the board regarding the status of xmlbeanscxx 
subproject, Cliff Schmidt, mentor of the project, sent out a message 
on the project's email list cxx-dev@xmlbeans.apache.org asking if the 
project needs to be closed since there wasn't any serious activity in 
the last 6 months. Cliff received a couple private emails from 
xmlbeans-cxx committers saying that they don't believe this project 
is likely to become more active in the foreseeable future.

Given the circumstances, with regrets, XMLBeans PMC and Cliff's 
recommendation is to officially close xmlbeanscxx subproject.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Felix Project

Community:

   * Voted on and accepted Config Admin and Metatype service
     contributions from Day AG.
   * Added Felix Meschberger as committer.
   * Dealt with a PMC membership issue raised as a part of the
     graduation process; thanks to the board for their help with this
     issue.
   * Community celebrations after the graduation announcement.

Migration to TLP:

   * Initial announcement sent to the list preparing people for the
     move, but no real migration progress to report at this point since
     graduation notification was so recent.

Software:

   * Added new OSGi R4 specification functionality to the core
     framework (e.g., Require-Bundle and extension bundle functionality).
   * Committed two more OSGi R4 service specification implementations
     (e.g., Config Admin and Metatype) from Day AG.
   * Improvements to OSGi R4 Declarative Services implementation by
     Felix Meschberger bringing it closer to specification compliance.
   * Felix Commons, headed by Enrique Rodriguez, started to offer
     bundle-ized versions of common open source libraries. Current
     contributions by John Conlon and Felix Meschberger.
   * Committed several significant community contributed patches for
     the Maven Bundle Plugin, our Maven plugin to simplify building
     OSGi bundles.
   * Continued improvements to other Felix sub-projects (e.g., the
     iPOJO service-oriented component model).

Licensing and other issues:

   * Software grants for Config Admin and Metatype were previously
     filed by Day AG.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

As noted in the March report, "Heraldry has had issues because of a vendor
deciding that they didn't like having to open up to community development
after all.  Work is underway to reconstitute the project without them.  The
heraldry-dev@ archives document the events and process."  Accordingly, the
Incubator has attempted to restart the Heraldry project with those who have
again agree to operate according to ASF policies and practices.  We don't
know how it will play out, but "be there even just 3 good people wanting to
collaborate" (abuse of literary reference), we will give them a chance.

A number of projects wanted to release during the past month, and that
appears to be going more smoothly now than it has in the past.  I believe
that the expectations are perhaps better known, and it seems that more
projects are running RBD's RAT before asking for a vote.  Tuscany withdrew a
set of votes in order to focus on community issues (some conflict), at least
one new Tuscany Committer has been voted upon since, and about a month later
Tuscany came back with a new request for a release.

Trinidad graduated out of the Incubator to MyFaces.  Another MyFaces-related
project is starting Incubation.

There is something of a shortage of people willing and able to act as
Mentors, even on some of the "larger" projects, much less some of the small
ones, e.g., FtpServer, that are asking for help.  There is no action item
for the Board, just an observation.

On a related note, we once again revisited the issue of who can be a Mentor,
and once again the vast consensus (with a few contrary votes) is that it is
not required that one be an ASF Member, but that it is desirable that at
least one Mentor on every project be an ASF Member, since that means that
the person will have access to archives and information from internal lists
that might be useful in the Mentoring process.

A number of projects failed to report.  They are noted below with a question
if they should be put into an archival status, and e-mail has been sent to
initiate the process.

=== CXF ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

Project name - CXF

Description - SOA enabling framework, web services toolkit

Date of entry - August, 2006

Top three items to resolve -
 1. Diversity - Active commiters are still 90% IONA people
 2. Growth of community - related to diversity.  The traffic on both the
users and dev lists is growing with new people jumping in, but still is
mostly IONA folks.
 3. Mentor status - recent discussion on general@i.a.o suggested we really
need three active mentors.   We currently only have 2 mentors total, only
one of which has been active.  (the other is getting back up to speed
though.)


Community aspects:
 * Voted in Jarek Gawor as a committer due to his excellent work on JAX-WS
compliancy fixes.
 * Have been working closely with Geronimo to integrate CXF into the next
version of Geronimo.
 * Have started working with Camel folks to define requirements and produce
API's that allow CXF to work well with Camel


Code aspects:
 * Started to finalize the next milestone release.   There are a few
remaining features we need to finish.
 * Ongoing TCK testing may require unexpected code changes.
 * Very long ongoing discussions about some of the transport API's.
Resolutions on these are slow going.


=== FtpServer ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

Description: FtpServer is a Java based implementation of the RFC covering
different aspects of FTP.

Since the last board report, the main activity within FtpServer has been a
rather large rewrite to create an Apache MINA based network implementation.
The aim with this is to leverage the asynchronous IO library to get better
scalability. The initial performance tests shows that this has been
successful and that FtpServer now can handle significant loads. Besides this
major work, many minor issues has been closed, mostly based on feedback from
users.

As reported previously, FtpServer has very few active commiters. Currently,
there is only one. This is, for many reasons a big problem and one that we
need to resolve. A discussion was started on general@i.a.o to address this.
Among many good ideas, one was to seek closer cooperation with Tomcat and
write a FTP connector for Tomcat. This is something we will pursue both
based on technical (Tomcat is a very stable runtime to base FtpServer on)
and community merits. With this, we hope to possibly attract Tomcat
developers into the joys of FTP.

We also need to reach out using articles, blog posts and talks. No
significant progress has been made in this area since the last report.

iPMC questions / comments:
 * jukka: Incubating since 2003-03-29

=== Graffito ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin

Graffito is a framework for content-based applications, especially in
portlet environments. Graffito entered incubation on September 20, 2004.

Despite recent efforts the level of activity within the Graffito project
remains low. The only part of the project that enjoys continued interest and
commit activity is the JCR Mapping component, whose transfer into a
subproject of Apache Jackrabbit is being prepared.

There is little indication that the level of activity within other parts of
the Graffito project would increase in future, so we will most likely
request termination of the project as dormant as soon as the JCR Mapping
component has been moved to Apache Jackrabbit.

=== Heraldry ===

See general report regarding the "reboot" of Heraldry.


=== Ivy ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

Project name - Ivy

Description - Ivy is a dependencies management tool mostly used in
combination with Apache Ant

Date of entry - October 23rd, 2006

Top three items to resolve:
 1. Growth of commiters - We are still only two commiters, which is not
enough to ensure the future of Ivy
 2. Release - We haven't made any release in the incubator yet, so we still
don't know if we are able to release.
 3. Growth of community - We have a pretty active user community, seeing
more with more involvement in the project would help.

Community aspects:
 * We have had contributions in patches from 7 contributors since our entry
in the Incubator.
 * Some contributors are actively discussing design discussions in the dev
mailing list, and replying to other users questions
 * We have setup our build in Gump
 * Xavier will give a talk at ApacheCon EU

Code aspects:
 * The refactoring to help new developers to catch up with the code base is
mostly finished.
 * We are currently preparing a first release, the release process is
documented, and we are almost ready to submit the release to the vote of the
IPMC
 * We have greatly improved our compatibility with Apache Maven 2 metadata
 * Some changes to make Ivy more simple to use and more flexible are still
in development

=== JuiCE ===

No report submitted, and it may be time to archive this project.


=== Lucene.Net ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

Lucene.Net has had a rough time learning the ropes of the Apache Incubator,
struggling with making releases that dot all the i's.  There are several
hurdles, with a single committer (George Aroush) using a language/platform
that is not commonly used at the ASF and which has a culture that has
historically not been about open source (C# .NET).  Goerge has put forth
additional effort recently to address the concerns that the Incubator PMC
mentioned, and is on its way to a new release.

iPMC questions / comments:
 * jukka: Incubating since 2006-03-15


=== Qpid ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

The Apache Qpid Project provides an open and interoperable, multiple
language implementations of the Advanced Messaged Queuing Protocol (AMQP)
specification

Date of entry to the Incubator : 2006-09

Resolved issues

 * None to report

Top two items to resolve before graduation

 * Understanding the details between JCP and announce compliance
 * Making sure we are comfortable with the working relationship between Qpid
and the AMQP Working Group.

* Any legal, cross-project or personal issues that still need to be
addressed?
 * We need another Mentor, it has become clear that a project can't function
smoothly without at least 3 Mentors, looking for another mentor.... This has
delayed getting new committers onto the project, as most of the committers
we are attracting are net new to Apache and the long cycles to get them on
due to IPMC votes etc does not create a great impression for Apache new
comers.

* Latest developments.

 * Since entering into incubation we have had one release of the java code
base (M1).
 * We have migrated our build system from ant to maven.
 * Development has been moving forward. with improvements in memory
footprint management, passing the JMS TCK in with the java broker.
 * Addition of .NET client
 * Contributions from new non committers
 * Successfully voted to give 3 new committers access rights
 * Successfully voted to give a new member contributor rights to cwiki.
 * The creation of Web site
 * General progress on all code bases
 * In progress voting on 3 more new committers
 * Definition of test suite
 * Merge in branches relating to next spec version (C++, Python - Java in
progress)

* Plans and expectations for the next period?

 * Release a M2 of the full project
 * Merge in branches relating to next spec version 0-10
 * Move trunk to 0-10 of AMQP specification
 * Imporoving tests and coverage
 * Close question on JCP.

iPMC questions / comments:


=== Tika ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin

Tika is a toolkit for detecting and extracting metadata and structured text
content from various documents using existing parser libraries. Tika entered
incubation on March 22nd, 2007.

The Tika project has just started. The basic infrastructure (mailing lists,
subversion, issue tracker, web site) is mostly in place; the only thing
still missing is one committer account. We expect to get started with the
actual design and code work during the next few weeks.

=== TripleSoup ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

TripleSoup will be an RDF store, tooling to work with that database, and a
REST web interface to talk to that database using SPARQL, implemented as an
apache webserver module. TripleSoup entered incubation on February 5, 2007.

There are currently no issues requiring Incubator PMC or board attention.

 * Two out of three initial codebases have arrived.
 * Current work has focussed on the website, test infrastructure and build
system.
 * Legal clearance of initial codebases has been all but completed and
they're in SVN

=== UIMA ===

iPMC Reviewers: rdonkin, jukka

UIMA is a component framework for the analysis of unstructured content
such as text, audio and video.  UIMA entered incubation on October 3, 2006.

Some recent activity:

 * We completed our first incubating release last month, resolving all
legal issues and obtaining the necessary Incubator PMC approval.
 * We also published our first hotfix shortly afterwards, addressing an
issue in our GUI tooling found by our users.


Items to complete before graduation:
 * Attract new committers

Community:
 * Traffic on the uima-user list has started to pick up since our release.
We hope to be able to eventually attract some Apache UIMA users to become
committers.
 * uima-dev list has a good amount of traffic, mostly from the original
committers.
 * We have one contributor, Jorn Kottman who has submitted a few patches.


Code:
 * The UIMA Java framework code has been released
 * The UIMA C++ framework code was donated with a software grant and has
been added to SVN.  We're currently doing the final migration and testing
work to enable a release of the C++ framework.
 * We've established a sandbox and accepted a contribution from Jorn Kottman


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the April 25, 2007 board meeting.
