
                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                           January 19, 2005


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 PST -0800 and was begun at
    10:07 when a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was held teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent.

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net will be used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Geir Magnusson Jr.
        Stefano Mazzocchi (arrived 10:11)
        Sam Ruby
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker (arrived 10:11)

    Directors Absent:

        Brian Behlendorf

    Guests:

        Davanum Srinivas

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    A. The meeting of October 20, 2004

       CVS - board/board_minutes_2004_10_20.txt

       Minutes board/board_minutes_2004_10_20.txt approved by
       general consent.

    B. The meeting of November 14, 2004

       CVS - board/board_minutes_2004_11_14.txt

       Minutes board/board_minutes_2004_11_14.txt approved by
       general consent.

    C. The meeting of December 15, 2004

       CVS - board/board_minutes_2004_12_15.txt  [not yet available]
       Greg mentioned that he had some notes from the meeting that
       he was going to send Jim.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg reported that there was really very little to report.  Robyn
       had created the required paperwork to inform the US Patent and
       Trademark Office of the change of Lawyer of Record for the
       SPAMASSASSIN trademark application;  Greg signed this and
       the paperwork was submitted.

    B. President [Dirk]

       No significant activity beyond items not already found on
       the agenda below.

    C. Treasurer [Chuck]

       Lockbox services are still being pursued with WF. I received
       electronic copies of the signup documents and contracts, and
       submitted several questions, for which I have not received a
       response. I am pursuing this through the local WF branch to
       get some movement.

       We are awaiting a $10,000 wire transfer from Security Travel,
       which has not yet posted. I have been in contact with Tina
       Greene about this and will continue to pursue it.

       Termination notice has been sent to Jinx Hackware via USPS
       certified mail. Receipt has not yet been received from USPS
       for arrival of that letter.

       2004 books have been sent to our accountant HBE and will be
       committed to /foundation in the next week.

       Current balances (as of 01/18/2005):

       Paypal           $3107.64
       Checking        $18748.17
       Premium Mkt.   $100117.76

       Total          $121973.57

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       As per board discussion and direction at the Nov. 2004 meeting,
       the list of signed iCLAs has been made "public." Basically, the
       committers page at www.apache.org/~jim/committers.html has been
       adjusted to also list those with signed CLAs who do not have
       CVS/SVN ids (ie: lack commit access). When requested, pseudonyms
       are printed instead of their "real" names.

       As such, the clas.txt file, located in the foundation SVN tree,
       had been removed in favor of 2 distinct files: iclas.txt and
       cclas.txt, where the former lists signed iCLAs and the
       latter lists signed Corporate CLAs.

       The committers and project pages are now updated every
       morning.

       2 checks from "Car Program LLC" have been received; one
       for $368.90 and another for $1,362.90. These are being
       forwarded to Chuck.

       Eric Cholet has officially requested Emeritus Status.
       His request was signed and FAXed, and he has been so
       moved.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache DB Project [John McNally]

       See Attachment A

       Apache DB Project report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    B. Apache Geronimo Project [Geir Magnusson Jr]

       See Attachment B

       Apache Geronimo Project report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    C. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman]

       See Attachment C

       In addition to the attached report, 2 oral reports were
       given:

        Ken Coar:
          Derby
          -----
          - Going well.

        Davanum Srinivas:
          Apollo/Hermes/Muse
          ------------------
          - New committer for Hermes (Stefan Lischke)
          - Projects are trying to recruit new committers
          - Apollo Trademark is a stumbling block for incubated release of
            Apollo
          - Hermes will implement both WS-Eventing and WS-Notification
            standards

          Mirae
          -----
          - New project for JSR 172 (Web services under J2ME)
          - Waiting for me (Dims) to do the infrastructure work

       Apache Incubator Project report approved as submitted, amended
       and discussed by general consent.

    D. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas]

       See Attachment D

       Apache James Project report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    E. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl]

       See Attachment E

       No reported submitted.

    F. Apache Struts Project [Craig R. McClanahan]

       See Attachment F

       Apache Struts Project report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    G. Apache TCL Project [David Welton]

       See Attachment G

       Apache TCL Project report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    H. Conference Planning [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment H

       In addition to the submitted report,  the board again expressed
       its displeasure with Security Travel.  Some board members felt
       that the "sloppy" way in which ST was operating was doing damage
       to the ASF.  There were 4 main points which the board felt that
       ST was deficient in:
       
          1. Lack of invoicing.  At least one company has
             reported that they still have not been invoiced.
             In general, this appears to be ST simply not keeping
             accurate and sufficient "track" of normal operating
             paperwork.
          2. Not paying speakers.
          3. Very bad interaction with Sponsors.  Many board
             members have been contacted privately regarding
             sponsors' bad experiences with ST.
          4. The lack of PR for ApacheCon 2004, which, the board
             feels, significantly (negatively) impacted the attendence and
             success of ApacheCon 2004.

       For all these reasons, and more, an impromptu Special Order, C,
       was added to the agenda.

       Conference Planning report approve as submitted by
       general consent.

    I. Security Team [Ben Laurie]

       See Attachment I

       No report submitted.  It was noted that the Security Team had
       not submitted a report for almost a year.  Greg indicated
       he would contact Ben regarding this.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Establish Lucene as a top level project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to the Lucene and search
       technologies, for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Search Project", be
       and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Search Project be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software for
       Lucene and for related software components, based on software
       licensed to the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Search" be
       and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve
       at the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Apache Search Project, and to have primary responsibility for
       management of the projects within the scope of responsibility
       of the Apache Search Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Search Project:

           Doug Cutting
           Otis Gospodnetic
           Erik Hatcher
           Daniel Naber
           Christoph Goller
           Mark Harwood
           Scott Ganyo 

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Doug Cutting be
       and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache
       Search, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Search Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation of the
       Apache Search Project, in the Java language as well as others,
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Search Project be and hereby
       is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the Jakarta
       Lucene subproject, and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Jakarta
       Lucene sub-project and encumbered upon the Jakarta Project are
       hereafter discharged.

       Special Order A, a Resolution to Establish Lucene as a top level
       project, was passed by Unanimous Vote.

    B. Change the Chair of the Apache Perl Project

       WHEREAS, the membership of the Perl-Apache Project Management
       Committee (PMC) have appointed Geoffrey Young to serve as
       chairman of the Perl-Apache PMC; and
 
       WHEREAS, the previously appointed chairman of the Perl-Apache
       PMC, Doug MacEachern, has stepped down from his position as Vice
       President, Perl-Apache, in favor of Geoffrey Young's
       appointment to that position.
 
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Geoffrey Young be and
       hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Perl-Apache,
       to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction
       of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation
       until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       Special Order B, a Resolution to Change the Chair of the Apache Perl
       Project, was passed by Unanimous Vote.

    C. Forbid the Conference Committee to use Security Travel for any
       2005 ApacheCon Conferences

       A board vote was called on whether the board should direct the
       ConCom to specifically not use Security Travel for any ApacheCon
       conference in 2005.  It was noted that this direction could easily
       result in no ApacheCon being held, in the US, in 2005.  With this
       potential result in mind, a roll-call vote was placed:
       
           For the matter of Forbidding the ConCom to Use Security Travel
           for any ApacheCon event in the year 2005:
           
              Yea: Ken, Jim, Stefano, Sam, Greg, Sander
              Nay:
              Abstain: Dirk, Geir.

        By a vote of 6 for, none against and 2 abstentions, the vote
        was passed and ConCom was so directed.

 7. Discussion Items
 
    A. Discussion was held on the means to increase cooperation between FSF
       and ASF. It was noted that the ASF received no  action items from the
       conf call with FSF that was held on 11th Jan.  The following were
       noted as main topics in the discussions.
		- Help Kaffe/Classpath's Free JVM initative
		- Ability to use LGPL in Apache projects
		- Ability to use Apache code in GPL/LGPL projects

    B. Discussion was held on lobbying as it pertains to 501(c)3 and whether
       it made sense for the ASF to elect also 501(h) (or friends) status.
       It was agreed that 501(h) was not appropriate or required for the
       ASF,  nor did it really benefit the ASF in any way.

    C. Discussion was held asking all employed committers to get a CCLA on file
       from employer.  It was noted that it is really the responsibility of
       the individual contributor to ensure that their CLA is valid, and
       to check with their employer if they have any doubts.  Although the
       ASF welcomes corporate CLAs, they ASF will not currently require
       them.  Instead, committers will be periodically reminded of their
       responsibilities per the CLA on a semi-annual basis.

 8. Unfinished Business

    None.

 9. New Business

    None.

10. Announcements

    Sam reported that he was chairing the Apache Track for OSCON.

    Sander reported that the "InfrastructureCon" was scheduled for
    March 19th.

11. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 11:30 PST -0800.  Adjourned at 12:11.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache DB Project

The DB project continues with its primary task of oversight of the OJB
and Torque subprojects.  There was conversation between DB and Jakarta
on movement of commons-sql from Jakarta to DB as a  common base
component of OJB and Torque.  The vote was favorable all around, so it
is now a matter of determining the mechanics.

The mailing lists for Torque and OJB projects remain active and with no
conflict to note.  OJB planned to wrap up a 1.0.2 maintenance release
but that slipped into the next quarter; work also continues work towards
a 1.1 release.  Torque tagged a 3.1.1 maintenance release.

Henning P. Schmiedehausen was added to the DB PMC.  Torque added Thomas
Fischer as a new committer.  It was noted that overall, Derby appears to
be making good progress in the incubator.  DB also voted to support a
JDO project for incubation.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

The Geronimo project community is generally in a heads-down mode, 
working on implementation of the remaining pieces necessary to 
achieve the goal of J2EE 1.4 certification.

On the development front, we are focused now on :

1) Apache Tomcat integration to offer the home-grown alternative
   to Jetty, the current web container.
2) Interop (CORBA)
3) Web services

In addition to the developmental focus, we are working also in 
community development.  To that end, we've added 1 committer since 
our last report, and have another 4 in late stage of consideration.

Further, we have recieved a contribution of a codebase for
IIOP/CORBA, which is a big help with the interop development
focus.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

We are seeing good progress in a number of projects.  Several new
projects have moved into the Incubator, e.g., Graffito, a couple are
preparing to apply for TLP status or move into existing TLPs, and
others are maturing nicely.

Resource creation bottlenecks continue to effect the Incubator.  One
thing that would help will be an integrated script to create the
necessary resources for an Incubator project.  That would require more
karma to run than most people have, but could be run by a root person
after reviewing the data that would drive it.

Licensing and other IP related issues were reported as an on-going
topic of discussion in the last report, at which time I mentioned that
it would help to have some legal resource(s) participating with the
Incubator.  IP issues continued to come up this quarter, and the new
legal resources have started to be helpful to us.

MyFaces is preparing to apply for TLP status.  The Directory project
will likely apply for TLP status around the next quarterly report, and
is preparing its first milestone releases, including a generally
useable version of the existing Apache Naming package from Catalina,
which Phil Steitz is trying to get Tomcat to review for future
inclusion.

Additional human resources are always welcomed.

                           - 0 -
                           
The list of projects in the Incubator is at
http://incubator.apache.org/projects/.  Here are the STATUS reports
from the PPMCs that have sent one in.  Other projects did update their
STATUS files on the aforementioned page.


Status Report from the Graffito PPMC
====================================

1) Is the STATUS file up to date?

   Yes

2) Any legal, cross-project or personal issues that still need to be
   addressed?
    
   * Software grant has been recieved by the ASF.
   * All trademark issues with project name have been resolved.
   * We have renamed the JCMS project as Graffito to avoid naming
     confusion with Jalios JCMS, another Java based CMS system.
       
3) What has been done for incubation since the last report?
        
   * We cleaned up repository, site, build process, site deployment
     and publishing to help new users and developers jump into the
     project.
   * Christophe Lombart account has been created and karma granted
   * ASF Infrastructure has been set up for Graffito
   * We are working on the Jetspeed 2 integration & building JSR 168
     portlets.

4) Plans and expectations for the next period?

   * Add more info in the Graffito site
   * WEBDAV integration
   * More work on Jetspeed 2 integration, building portlets.
   * Introduce Graffito to some important related projects:
       Slide, JackRabbit, Jetspeed ... in order to grow the
       development community
      
5) Any recommendations for how incubation could run more smoothly for
   you?

   None so far.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache James Project

Not a lot of activity.  Nothing that needs board review, but here are
some highlights:
- We've added 3-4 developers to the PMC
- one of our ancient committers (Danny Angus) was made a member!
- No new committers
- have been working to absorb a sourceforge hosted project that parses
  MIME, crossing T's and dotting I's with incubator as appropriate.
- we've migrated to SVN
- we've made no releases
- we've twiddled our thumbs and sighed a lot about Avalon and our
  container.
- have steady stream of user questions and small patches.

Things are stable and hopefully as we sort out what we're doing on the
container front, that will help lead to an easier development setup
and more activity.  My company's product expects to add a feature
shortly that will rely depend on James' mailets, so there's personal
hope that James will get some work-related attention.  About the
biggest deal this past quarter is I had my third daughter this
weekend. :)


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache Maven Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Struts Project

The last three months have seen renewed interest and vigor about
moving Struts forward in technology terms.  Now that we have moved
our source code repository to Subversion, we are leveraging the new
capabilities to reorganize our source code into separately deliverable
artifacts (rather than one large "wad-o-stuff"), to be managed
as subprojects which can be released on their own schedules.  This
will enable us to be more responsive to the user community's desire
for timely releases, without having to coordinate one monster release.
In addition, work is underway to rationalize the build architecture
around Maven.

Technically, Struts 1.x  continues to evolve in a manner that is
fundamentally backwards compatible, but which leverages new internal
techniques (such as the Chain of Responsibility design pattern) that
will make customization and specialization much easier.  At the same time,
experimental development around a fresh look at web application
architectures is also taking place in the form of "Shale", a
JSF-based framework, being proposed as an alternative to Struts 1.x.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache TCL Project

Not much activity in the Tcl world.  Some work continues on Rivet, and
our transition to the auto* tools, as well as gradual improvements,
but no major changes are in the offing.  Questions are answered
promptly on the mailing lists.  In short, things are humming along
without making a lot of noise.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for Conference Planning

The concom PMC has discussed what to do about the Security Travel
issues.  No conclusions have yet been drawn; it has been noted that we
either keep Security for 2005 or we probably won't have a show.  There
are issues around when and how to manage a search with Security still
involved (as they are).

Virtually all of the expenses have been paid and reimbursements made,
but as of this moment Gluecode still hasn't been invoiced for their
participation in the exhibit area, and Leo Simons hasn't been
reimbursed for his travel (he was on a 'scholarship', being brought to
ApacheCon using funds donated for the purpose).  I am continuing to
pursue these issues with Tina.

The CFP for ApacheCon Europe 2005 should open tomorrow (20 January
2005).  I am working on the details of our contract with S&S Verlag.

There have been no responses on the general concom list to requests
for input on ApacheCon issues.

Security Travel and S&S Verlag have been requested to provide detailed
schedules and deadlines for their various activities leading to the
conferences.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Security Team


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the January 19, 2005 board meeting.
