                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            July 19, 2006


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the chairman at 10:04.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar (arrived 10:13)
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik (arrived 10:20)
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Geir Magnusson Jr (arrived 10:08)

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of May 24, 2006

       SVN - {private}/foundation/board/board_minutes_2006_05_24.txt

       Approved by General Consent

    B. The meeting of June 27, 2006

       SVN - {private}/foundation/board/board_minutes_2006_06_27.txt

       Approved by General Consent

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg reports that he has been offline or otherwise swamped at
       work during the few weeks since the last board meeting. He has
       nothing to report.

    B. President [Sander]

       Sander provided an update regarding our current infrastructure
       as well as our infrastructure providers.  Contractual updates
       will be provided over the next few meetings.

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       Work progresses on preparing our tax returns.  Counsel has taken
       a pass at reviewing the current state of our returns and made
       some minor suggestions.  We are seeking a clarification from the
       IRS on how many officers we need to disclose information for as
       Counsel has received conflicting reports on this issue.

       I met with Henri and Gianugo in Dublin to go over the returns and
       review the process that I am undertaking.

       I'm aiming to have a complete draft of the returns around the end of
       this month (modulo how many officers we need to disclose for) in
       order to have ample time for the Audit Committee to review before
       the September 15 filing date.  I would suggest that the Audit
       Committee be directed to submit an independent report next month
       as well.

       ALL Directors MUST fill in {private}/officers/irs-disclosures.txt.
       This needs to be completed ASAP.

       Our balances below reflect the May and June payments for the
       sysadmin position.
       
       I will also be attending a pre-OSCON summit next week with folks
       from other OSS foundations (Mozilla, Eclipse, etc.) and will be
       informally briefing them on how we are handling our finances and
       non-profit tax status. We may get some insight into how other
       foundations are operating too.  If there's anything of particular
       interest, I'll report back to the Board.

       Current balances (as of 07/18/2006):

        Paypal             $    784.14 (-$    709.91)
        Checking           $ 12,198.25 (+$  9,084.13)
        Savings            $206,941.05 (-$ 19,541.04)
        Total              $219,923.44 (-$ 11,166.82)

        Jim noted that many people are simply saying "info in
        members.txt" in the irs-disclosures.txt file mentioned
        above and asked Justin if that was OK. Justin indicated
        that it did not place too much burden on him to have that
        information split between 2 files.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       We have received signed member applications from just about
       everyone that was nominated and elected in last month's
       member meeting, with 2 noted exceptions: Simon Kitching
       had originally declined membership, due to current time
       constraints and his concern that he would not have enough
       free time in the short term to be very "active." On July 16th,
       he Emailed myself and Phil Steitz (who nominated Simon) and
       said that he had reconsidered and would be happy to accept.
       This means, of course, that we had not received a signed
       member application by the required 30days. I am willing to
       make an exception in this case if the board concurs.

       Secondly, despite several attempts, no one has heard back from
       Bill Barker regarding his acceptance of membership. Since we
       are past the 30 days, this means that Bill is not a member.
       
       Jim has an update on the open Insurance questions for the
       foundation.
       
       Discussion has been ongoing concerning secretarial support
       services for the Secretary and Treasurer; there are 2
       proposals currently before the board.
       
       Other than the normal influx of iCLAs, CCLAs and grants,
       the ASF office has received no correspondence which requires
       board attention.
       
    E. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

        LEGAL HOME PAGE: Have created new legal home page with links
            to docs relevant for users and committers.  Also posting
            and linking to these legal reports for interested 
            committers to track progress.  Please let me know if 
            there are any concerns about this.  Will publicize the
            legal home page and its links on Friday in email to 
            committers@. 

        LICENSING HEADER: The final version is now posted, linked
            from the new legal web page: apache.org/legal.  Email to
            committers will go out on Friday. 

        CRYPTO EXPORT DOCS: A nearly final version of this is posted
            including a lengthy FAQ from various dev-list 
            discussions.  Last step is to work with dreid on project-
            specific RDF files that build final required web page.
            Hoping to have this also done and in email to committers
            on Friday.

        THIRD-PARTY LICENSING POLICY: Haven't gotten to this yet, but
            hoping to make minor revisions and make enforcement 
            approach clear in doc (as described in previous reports)
            and then call it final, and ideally have it included in
            same email to committers as alerts on src header and 
            crypto docs. 

        PATENT LICENSING IN CCLAS: I've tried to keep the board 
            aware enough of this discussion over the last 2-3 months
            to jump in as any director sees fit; however, recent
            discussions on board@ lead me to believe that I should
            request this to become an item of new business, rather
            than wait for another director to inquire more about it.
            I suggest a brief conversation on the topic today, 
            followed by a more detailed presentation of the concerns
            of each side of the issue at some point in the near 
            future.

        SFLC LETTER ON ODF: After clarifying with SFLC that we did
            not want their letter to represent an "Apache position"
            on ODF nor did we want our name used in any PR on the
            subject, I agreed to the text of their letter.  Since 
            publishing the letter several weeks ago, they appear to
            have honored my requests completely.

        STANDARDS LICENSING: I continue to have conversations with
            vendors on how they can improve the licensing of their
            essential patent claims for specifications that Apache
            would consider implementing.  I'm actually seeing some
            progress/willingness to revise from vendors.

    F. VP of JCP [Geir]

       Geir reported that involvement in the JCP regarding JSR's
       has been active and healthy.  He also noted Harmony's intent
       to request and receive the TCK.  Geir brought to the board's
       attention the upcoming Geronimo release and some potential
       issues regarding Little G.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Garrett Rooney / Justin]

       See Attachment A
       
       The board noted the request for third party licensing policy, and
       the ssl (crypto) policy. Justin reported that they are working on
       this with Cliff and that there probably isn't really anything for
       Board to do now. Cliff mentioned that much progress on crypto issue
       since last month's report has been made

       Approved by General Consent

    B. Apache Excalibur Project [J. Aaron Farr / Sam]

       See Attachment B
       
       Jim noted that they are not yet asking for ways to re-energize the
       project but we may see that at some point. Sam noted that the
       project is an artifact of attempts to resolve the Avalon situation
       amicably.  The status of SVN and the website should be updated to
       reflect the current non-vibrancy of the community.

       It was noted that the board requests that the Apache Excalibur
       Project provide a update report for next month's (Aug 2006)
       board meeting.

       Approved by General Consent

    C. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Ken]

       See Attachment C
       
       Approved by General Consent

    D. Apache iBATIS Project [Ted Husted / Cliff]

       See Attachment D
       
       Approved by General Consent

    E. Infrastructure Team [Sander Striker]

       See Attachment E
              
       Approved by General Consent

    F. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Roy T. Fielding / Dirk]

       See Attachment F
       
    G. Apache Jakarta Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment G
       
       Jim noted the forthcoming resolution for chair change. Henri
       reported that the testing.apache proposal is slumbering currently
       and that Dims is currently moving on with a Modeler release,
       the first result of having a single svn karma list.

       Approved by General Consent

    H. Apache Lucene Project [Doug Cutting / Jim]

       See Attachment H
       
       Jim asked how did LUCENE.NET enter incubation with 1 committer?
       It was unclear at this point. Sander noted that Lucene4c is
       likely to get some life in it again.

       Approved by General Consent

    I. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Greg]

       See Attachment I
       
       Greg to contact Santiago regarding lack of, and lateness of, reports.

       No report provided.

    J. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daniel Quinlan / Cliff]

       See Attachment J
       
       Henri noted the CVE advisory:
             http://spamassassin.apache.org/advisories/cve-2006-2447.txt

       Approved by General Consent

    K. Apache Tomcat Project [Yoav Shapira / Justin]

       See Attachment K
       
       Approved by General Consent

    L. Apache Web Services Project [Davanum Srinivas / Greg]

       See Attachment L
       
       Sam noted that there was some community concern about creating a
       milestone release so soon after the IBM contribution; Sam reported
       that those issues have been resolved, as far as he knows, but that
       they should have been reflected in the report.

       Approved by General Consent

    M. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Dirk]

       See Attachment M
       
       Approved by General Consent

    N. Public Relations Committee [Brian W. Fitzpatrick / Sander]

       See Attachment N
       
       Jim noted that the PRC did not mention OSCON booth which
       was donated to the ASF and was staffed by ASF members during
       OSCON.

       Approved by General Consent

    O. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Henri]

       See Attachment O
       
       The board was curious if Howard was the only one working on v5
       and questions if there was any community involvement there?
       Henri noted that all of the code commits to date are from Howard, 
       and that there is a little conversation on the mailing list but not 
       very much: 12 or so changes to a couple of wiki pages.

       Approved by General Consent

    P. Apache Incubator Project [Noel Bergman / Jim]

       See Attachment P
       
       Jim to address mod_ftp (likely propose graduation to httpd)

       Approved by General Consent

    Q. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Sam]

       See Attachment Q
       
       Approved by General Consent

    -- Note: Previous reports were held over from the previous month
    --       this months reports start here

    R. Apache Beehive Project [Eddie O'Neil / Cliff]

       See Attachment R
       
       Approved by General Consent

    S. Apache Conference Planning [Ken Coar]

       Ken provided a verbal report to the board. Ken reported that
       ApacheCon Europe 2006 was wrapped up with relatively good
       success. He reported that ConCom has decided to decline
       to award any additional contract to S&S for future European
       conferences. Sessions for AC-US 2006 have been selected and will
       be announced shortly. A few contract issues are still being
       worked on. The subject of hardship cases for ApacheCon was
       brought up again. The main concern of the board was to
       avoid any sort of subjective classification. There was also
       discussion on whether the ASF should even be funding
       hardship cases. It was noted that the PRC should be more
       of a help with regards to this. Ken reported on some
       heated discussions regarding PR-related talks, and ConCom
       was working with the PRC to address these. Ken reminded
       the board that committers and members receive ApacheCon
       discounts.
       
       Approved by General Consent

    T. Apache DB Project [Brian McCallister / Henri]

       See Attachment T
       
       Approved by General Consent

    U. Apache Directory Project [Alex Karasulu / Sander]

       See Attachment U
       
       Juston noted that the temporary change in rules is interesting.
       Jim is following and involved in the PMC and reported the recent
       work on lowering committer bar in PMC. Sam indicated that he was
       impressed by the PMC being proactive.

       Approved by General Consent

    V. Apache Geronimo Project [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment V
       
       Ken to provide report at next month's (Aug 2006) meeting

    W. Apache Incubator Project [Noel J. Bergman / Greg]

       See Attachment W
       
       Approved by General Consent

    X. Apache James Project [Serge Knystautas / Sam]

       See Attachment X
       
       Jim asked if the size of report match the statement that
       "James has really come back to life"? If so, shouldn't
       the report have more to say? Henri noted a big increase in email
       on server-dev@james; see:

           http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/james-server-dev/
           
       Sander noted that the size of the report is not a good indicator
       to measure activity

       Approved by General Consent

    Y. Apache Maven Project [Jason van Zyl / Jim]

       See Attachment Y
       
       The board wondered on the status of the repository at apache.org?
       Sam noted that Gump's issues aren't apparently on Maven's radio.
       The board agreed that it is up to Gump to resolve this.

       Approved by General Consent

    Z. Apache MyFaces Project [Manfred Geiler / Dirk]

       See Attachment Z
       
       Approved by General Consent

    AA. Apache Security Team [Ben Laurie / Justin]

       See Attachment AA
       
       No report provided
       
       Jim asked when was the last time we had a report and asked if
       it was time to propose a more active chair? Henri noted that
       the last report was February 2006 but the board noted that
       reports were few and sparse. Sander said that he had talked
       to Ben Laurie and that he has been in touch with Mark J. Cox
       as a possible candidate to take over.

    AB. Apache Struts Project [Martin Cooper / Henri]

       See Attachment AB
       
       Approved by General Consent

    AC. Apache TCL Project [David N. Welton / Ken]

       See Attachment AC
       
       Approved by General Consent

    AD. Apache Santuario Project [Berin Lautenbach / Cliff]

       See Attachment AD
       
       Approved by General Consent

    AE. Apache Shale Project [Craig McClanahan / Henri]

       See Attachment AE
       
       The board wondered if the nightlies posted to apache.org rather than
       being served from Craig's machine? henri noted that the nightlies are
       available at:
       
           http://people.apache.org/builds/shale/

       Justin asked if the issues with Struts PMC been resolved and
       Henri indicated that things seem pretty amicable on struts-pmc/struts-dev

       Approved by General Consent

    AF. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Henri]

       See Attachment AF
       
       See above comments

       Approved by General Consent

 6. Special Orders

   A. Change of standing Audit Committee Chair

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Jim
      Jagielski as chair, standing Audit Committee, and

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
      resignation of Jim Jagielski as chair, standing Audit Committee;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Jim Jagielski is
      relieved and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of
      chair, standing Audit Committee, and

      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Henri Yandell be and hereby is
      appointed chair, standing Audit Committee, to serve at the
      direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the Audit
      Committee and have primary responsibility for managing the Audit
      Committee.

      Special Order 6A, Change of standing Audit Committee Chair, was
      approved by Unanimous Vote.

   B. Change of Jakarta PMC Chair

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Henri
      Yandell to the office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta
      Project, and

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
      resignation of Henri Yandell from the office of Vice
      President, Apache Jakarta Project;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Henri Yandell is relieved
      and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
      office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta Project, and

      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Martin van den Bemt be and hereby is
      appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Jakarta
      Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
      direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
      Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
      disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

      Special Order 6B, Change of Jakarta PMC Chair, was approved by
      Unanimous Vote.

   C. Resolution to change chair of the Apache SpamAssassin Project
    
      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Daniel
      Quinlan to the office of Vice President, Apache SpamAssassin
      Project, and

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
      resignation of Daniel Quinlan from the office of Vice
      President, Apache SpamAssassin Project;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Daniel Quinlan is relieved
      and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
      office of Vice President, Apache SpamAssassin Project, and

      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Justin Mason be and hereby is
      appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache SpamAssassin
      Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
      direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
      Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
      disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

      Special Order 6C, Resolution to change chair of the Apache SpamAssassin
      Project, was approved by Unanimous Vote.


 7. Discussion Items

     *  Scope of CLA patent Grant
        (refer to discussion on legal@ and board@)

     The main point of the discussion involved the concept of
     whether "the work" refers to the project as a whole and
     as a growing entity or to the codebase as it exists
     at that point in time. The concerns whether patent
     issues are set at the time of contribution or
     continue as additional code and contributions (either
     from the original contributor or others) are made
     to a project. Cliff reported that he is still seeking
     clarification and will provide an update to the
     board at the next meeting.

 8. Review of Current Action Items

 9. Unfinished Business

    None.
    
10. New Business

    None.
    
11. Announcements

    None.
    
12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at 11:54.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Since our last report the APR project has been progressing largely as
usual.  There has been activity in a few areas, along with a little
reshuffling of the committers and PMC, along with one release.

The only issues I am aware of that require the board's attention are
legal related.

First, we are still awaiting finalized versions of the third party
code licensing policy, and although we are unaware of any problems
with the current draft policies it would be awfully nice to get them
officially finalized.

Second, work has begun on an addition to APR-Util that provides an SSL
socket abstraction.  This will mean that we are for the first time
shipping code that depends on cryptographic libraries, and will have
to learn the current best practices for dealing with that.  At the
moment, the current plan is to use whatever the HTTP Server project is
doing as a template for our handling of this issue, but an ASF wide
"way to deal with this stuff" would certainly be nice to have.

On the personel front, Nick Kew was added to the PMC, Bojan Smojver
was voted in as a committer for his work on the DBD portions of
APR-Util, and Brian Pane resigned from the PMC due to a lack of time
to work on APR.  He will, of course, be welcomed back should he decide
to become active again.

One thing to note regarding new committers/PMC members is that we are
finding that much of our new activity is in the DBD library in
APR-Util, which is making it somewhat hard to elect new committers due
to the lack of PMC members who are actively involved in that work.
I'm sure this is a problem that will work itself out as new PMC
members emerge from that part of the project.

We have also had two releases since the last report, APR/APR-Util
1.2.7 and APR/APR-Util 0.9.12.  These were entirely bug fix releases,
mainly needed to fix build issues on Win32/Netware, and there were no
new features included.

Other than that, activity on the mailing lists seems reasonable, we're
getting a fair amount of activity originating from users of the
project, and all seems to generally be well in APR land.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

Excalibur Quarterly Report for June 2006

Items of note

 Leif Mortenson added to PMC.  He was supposed to be on it originally
but someone was left off the official list.

 No new committers.
 No new releases.


I thought the last quarter was quiet, but this quarter was quieter
still. The stats are as follows:

 Only 2 non-automated messages on the dev list
 No email traffic on the users list
 No svn commits since April (except for me updating the site this last
week)

I know there is interest to do another release, mostly based on
switching to maven 2 and OSGi compatibility, but thus far no
concerted effort has materialized.

best regards,

J Aaron Farr on behalf of the Excalibur PMC

-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

  * We are in the process of giving back gump.osuosl.org since we
    simply lack the people to take care of it.
        
Technical:
        
  * Our biggest problem right now is the lack of support for and by
    Maven 2 which needs to get addressed if we don't want to see more
    Java projects become unbuildable.
          
  * SourceForge CVS has been having problems since late March, when
    anonymous CVS dropped out of sync with the private
    repositories. In mid-may the site moved from having one CVS server
    for everything, to having a separate hostname for every project's
    repository. For Gump, this means that every sourceforge-hosted
    project needs to have their own repository file and the existing
    builds need to be completely purged. Currently only a few projects
    have been migrated due to their ubiquitousness (JUnit) or due to
    the effort of the project members themselves. Obviously, only
    project members who are also apache committers can do this
    unaidedely, which pushes more work onto the gump team.
     
    Until a full migration takes place, sourceforge-hosted projects
    will be built using a source snapshot of early May. This is going
    to lead to problems the longer the migration is put off.
     
Other:
     
  * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.
        
  * no releases.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project

Since our March 2006 report, the iBATIS community has continue to
make positive advances.

The team has been using "issue driven development" with good effect.
Development discussions are being attached as comments to JIRA
tickets, helping to keep the discussions focussed, organized, and easy
to find for future reference. Since the comments are posted to dev@,
it's still easy to follow along with only a mailreader.

iBATIS continues to find acceptance in the wider development
community.  High profile sites like MySpace, DevX, JavaLobby, and
dzone, all use either the .NET or Java implementation in production.

Also since our last report, one new committer (Jon Tirsen) has joined
the team, and the 1.3 version of our .NET implemented was found to be
of "General Availability" quality.

Team Member Clinton Begin has been invited to join the ASF as a
Member.  Other team members are submitting proposals for iBATIS talks
for ApacheCon 2006 US, which will hopefully draw additional iBATIS
developers to Texas this year.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Infrastructure Team


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

The Apache Jackrabbit project has had a relatively quiet two months
since our last report.  We have not added any new committers and
we have no board issues at this time.

We successfully released Apache Jackrabbit 1.0.1 on June 2nd
and are currently working on a 1.1 release.  Most of the effort
has been around cleaning up the edge cases as more new developers
send in bug reports related to their own application's use of
the 1.0 release.  We also have one active SoC project working on
a backup system for JCR repositories.  Hopefully, we'll be seeing
more patches soon from developers outside the core committers.
I would be happier if we had some new blood to nominate for the PMC.

At some point over the next two months, I am hoping to turn over
the Jackrabbit PMC chair position to someone else on the project.
Being chair of two different projects is a bit too distracting
and I think more people need to learn how to do it.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

---Status---

This quarter saw HiveMind becoming a TLP - it is waiting on its infra
requests to complete its move. The proposal for JMeter and Cactus to
form a testing.apache.org TLP was tabled by the board until the
following month (the meeting this report is for).

There was a lot of activity on the Jakarta General mailing list -
first passing a vote to merge SVN karma and then rejecting a vote to
move the Commons Sandbox up to the Jakarta level. The concept of
Jakarta containing a set of "Xxx Components" groupings has some
momentum, and there were various threads of discussion concerning the
chair's pushing of Jakarta to thinking of itself as a single community
and not a set of communities.

Struts suggested Tiles as a first component within a Web Components
grouping - but nothing has happened as yet. Geronimo are hoping for a
Commons Modeler release soon to help with their 1.1 release. There was
discussion as to how best to handle copyright dates - Cliff is aware
of this but we haven't brought it up on legal-discuss yet.

---Releases---

  * 15 June 2006 - Commons Chain 1.1 Released
  * 13 June 2006 - JMeter 2.2 Released
  *  8 June 2006 - Commons FileUpload 1.1.1 Released
  * 06 June 2006 - BCEL 5.2 Released
  * 14 May 2006 - Commons Collections 3.2 Released
  * 14 May 2006 - Commons Logging 1.1 Released
  * 08 May 2006 - Commons HttpClient 3.0.1 Released
  * 25 April 2006 - Commons SCXML promoted out of Commons Sandbox
  * 23 April 2006 - HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0-alpha1 Released
  * 13 April 2006 - Tapestry 4.0.2 Released
  * 03 April 2006 - Commons Pool 1.3 Released
  * 01 April 2006 - Tapestry 3.0.4 Released
  * 01 April 2006 - Tapestry 4.0.1 Released
  * 26 March 2006 - Cactus 1.7.2 Released
  * 24 March 2006 - Commons Validator 1.3.0 Released
  
---Community changes---
  
New committers
  * 26 March 2006 - Roland Weber (rolandw)
  
PMC
  * 27 March 2006 - Emmanuel Bourg (ebourg)
  * 14 June 2006 - Aaron Smuts (asmuts)
  
---Infrastructure news---
                              
Subversion karma within Jakarta has changed this quarter so that any
member of Jakarta has access to any part of Jakarta with the exception
of Jakarta POI which has concerns over NDAs concerning its subject
matter.

Jakarta Commons and Jakarta HttpComponents both moved from Bugzilla to
JIRA.

---Subproject news---

BCEL

The main contributors have left the project over the years.  Obviously
still quite a few users though. With a few people we managed so apply
the outstanding patches and close many bugs.  After 3 years we just
released BCEL 5.2 as a bugfix release.  Due to the lack of recent
activity at least 2 communites (findbugs and aspectj) are known to
have forked BCEL and maintain their own version. They have implemented
features (JDK1.5 support, speed and memory handling improvements) that
we would like try to port back.  A GSoC student is currently trying to
implement JDK1.5 and -if time permits- JDK1.6 support in
BCEL. Contribution happens through jira without a special branch. We
are in contact with the other communities. No one is excited yet - we
got positive feedback. They are interested in JDK 1.6 support as
well. We might have a chance to drag them back to BCEL. This could be
a good chance to increase the number of active committers
again. Hopefully we will see another relase after the GSoC.

Unfortunately only few PMC members (at least two) are on the
development list at the moment.

BCEL moved to maven2 as build system.

---Cactus---

Cactus had a submission (regarding build Cactus with Maven 2 and
providing a Maven 2 Cactus plugin) for the Google's Summer of Code
initiative, but unfortunately it did not get ranked high enough to be
accepted. On the brigher side, the student (Petar) said he would still
want to contribute to the project, so we might get some activities in
that direction in the upcoming quarter.

We also had a nice patch regarding a new feature provided by a user,
but it has not been incorporated to the source code yet.

Finally, the Cargo integration has not been completed yet.

---Commons Chain---

Commons Chain released version 1.1. This contained a number of
enhancements and bug fixes, most of which had sitting in the
repository a while (initial/last release was December 2004).

---Commons Collections---

Commons Collections released version 3.2. This contained lots of bug
fixes and a few new classes. Collections is a widely used project
which doesn't have nearly enough releases (one every 18 months or
so). Hopefully we can look at creating a generics version of the
project before too long.

---Commons DBCP---

After several months of inactivity at the end of last year, bug fixes
have now resumed and a release plan for a patch level release has been
published.

---Commons FileUpload---

Commons FileUpload released version 1.1.1. This was a minor
maintenance release to fix two bugs found since version 1.1 was
released in December 2005.

---Commons Jelly---

Jelly has had some active discussion and bug fixing development, as
well as upgrading the dependencies to a later version of dom4j and
jaxen. There are calls, but as yet no definitive plan for a release of
some of the taglibs and core.

---Commons Logging---

The long awaited JCL 1.1 was at last released. JCL has a tiny codebase
but is difficult to work on. It is used by a huge number of projects
both open source and commercial as well as being shipped with most
J2EE containers but the 1.0.x series of releases have some pretty
fundamental issues with (in particular) many implementations of the
later J2EE specifications. It is also unfortunate that JCL is forced
to work around deficiencies in these specifications. Though there were
only a small number of code changes, these were backed by much larger
quantities of analysis.

---Commons Math---

Commons math development continues with bug fixes and enhancements.  A
library including numerical linear algebra and analysis routines on
the commons math roadmap (as well as some other things) is being
considered for inclusion. The incubator IP clearance process will be
followed if the community agrees to accept the code.

---Commons Pool---

Commons Pool floundered last year. Too few active committers meant
that patches from developers were not being review. Pool is widely
used and its flaws unfortunately effected negatively many downstream
users. Thanks to the efforts of Sandy MacArthur, this situation has
been addressed and a 1.3 release cut. After some effort, the legal
hurdles were passed for the import of his composite pool
implementation (developed outside the ASF).

---Commons SCXML---

The Commons SCXML (State Chart XML) project has been promoted from
Commons Sandbox to Commons Proper. Commons SCXML provides a generic
state-machine based execution environment. It borrows most semantics
from its namesake Working Draft at the W3C. Anything that can be
represented as a UML state chart -- business process flows, view
navigation bits, interaction or dialog management, and many more --
can leverage the Commons SCXML library.

Commons SCXML was the most active component in the Commons Sandbox
repository and the Commons user mailing list for the last three
months. A first release plan has been drafted. At least one project
(in Jakarta Taglibs) will be immediately using Commons SCXML after its
first release.

---Commons Validator---

Commons Validator released version 1.3.0. This contained a number of
bug fixes for Validator 1.2.0 (released Nov. 2005) and a whole new
package of date/time/number validators.

---HttpComponents---

The most important thing first: [WWW] HttpComponents has a shiny new
logo, mostly red with vertical violet lines adding some contrast and
matching nicely with the feather in the Jakarta logo.

Bug tracking has moved from bugzilla to JIRA for both HttpClient and
HttpComponents. A new Client HTTP Programming Primer in the wiki
simplifies the life of new users.

The release of HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0-alpha1 in April is to be
followed by an alpha2 in June. That is a prerequisite for Axis2
switching from a fork of HttpClient test code to HttpCore, making them
our first official user! Work on HttpClient 4.0 is making progress on
the coding front. For the time being, this component will also include
the cookie, authentication and connection management code to reduce
the overhead for release management.  HttpAsync has seen some design
documentation being added and will pick up on coding in the next
quarter.

For HttpClient 3, there was a minor bugfix release 3.0.1. Work on the
3.1 release that will include the Cookie2 support from last year's
GSoC is in progress. Our apologies for the delay, but there is really
a lot of tedious work to be done to get HttpComponents up to speed, so
HttpClient 3 development had to be cut back to life support for a
while. Cookie2 support is expected to be the last major addition to
the old code base.

---JCS---

The JCS project added a new auxiliary--the JDBC disk cache. It's
highly scalable and is being used in production environments, backed
my MySQL. There were also a few small bug fixes. We also reduced the
number of dependencies to just two: util-concurrent and
commons-logging.

We added a getting started guide and substantially improved the
documentation. We are working on improving the FAQ and the Remote
Cache Server documentation.

We held a vote for a release. Everyone was in favor, and we should be
taking the next steps soon.

---JMeter---

Release 2.2 includes a lot of bug fixes and new functionality. We
decided to abandon Java 1.3 support with this release (performance on
1.3 was not good and some features did not work). There's still plenty
to do, as always.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

OVERVIEW

Lucene has had an active quarter, with new releases, sub-projects and
committers.  The top-level project added a new PMC member, Andrzej
Bialecki.

LUCENE JAVA

The Lucene Java sub-project, our flagship, made two releases, 1.9 and
2.0.  This was a major milestone.  The 1.9 release revised a number of
public APIs, deprecating the old APIs, and the 2.0 release removed all
of the old, now-deprecated APIs.

We added two new committers: Grant Ingersoll and Chris Hostetter.

This project also added nightly builds.

NUTCH

Nutch implements a crawler-based web search engine.  Development
towards Nutch's 0.8 release is steady.  This is a fundamental change,
moving Nutch on top of Hadoop's distributed computing platform.  Lots
of other smaller changes are in progress and we hope to release 0.8 in
the next quarter.  A Nutch installation searching Apache web
properties should also soon be publicly available.

HADOOP

Hadoop is a new sub-project developing a distributed computing
platform.  It's committers include Mike Cafarella, Andrzej Bialecki
and Doug Cutting from Nutch, and one new committer, Owen O'Malley.
Yahoo! is contributing lots of developers to this project and it is
making great progress.  Hadoop makes monthly releases, with patch
releases one week later.  So it has had a series of more than six
releases in all.  Yahoo!  has demonstrated good scalability of Hadoop
on clusters of over 600 machines.

SOLR

Solr is in incubation, based on software donated by CNET, developing
an enterprise search server based on Lucene.  It's development is
active, and needs only to build a more diverse community before it is
ready to exit the incubator.

LUCY

Lucy is a new Lucene sub-project, still in its infancy.  It will
develop a shared C-based core for ports of Lucene to other languages,
such as Perl, Python and Ruby.  Its initial committers are David
Balmain, Marvin Humphries and Doug Cutting.

LUCENE.NET

This is an incubator project, providing a C# port of Lucene.  It has
only a single committer, but hopes to soon add more.

LUCENE4C

This is an incubator project that does not appear to have made any
progress this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Portals Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

* 2006-05-25: SpamAssassin 3.1.2 released.

* Security releases to address CVE 2006-2447: SpamAssassin 3.1.3 on
  2006-06-06 and SpamAssassin 3.0.6 on 2006-06-05.

* Continued development on SpamAssassin 3.2.

* PMC Chair is changing from Daniel Quinlan to Justin Mason.

* Michael Parker is giving two talks on SpamAssassin at ApacheCon US.

* No issues (other than the PMC chair change) that require attention
  from the Board at this time.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

- We have no issues that require attention from the Board at this time

Development:
- Continued work on Tomcat 6.0 development: we expect to have release
6.0.0 ready roughly at the same time that Servlet Specification v2.5
and JSP Specification v2.1 are finalized.
- Continued work on one new and improved clustering implementations
(two alternative ones, tenatively referred to as Tribes and GroupCom)
for Tomcat 6.0.  These will possibly be back-ported as optional
modules for Tomcat 5.5 in the future.
- Continued work and testing on an experimental NIO (as in java.nio)
HTTP connector, although benchmarking results are unclear at this time

Releases:
- Continued work on the mod_jk connector, and a release candidate for
1.2.16 was put out: at least one serious bug was found, and mod_jk
1.2.17 is now in testing
- A bug fix and back-porting release on the Tomcat 4.1 branch, release
4.1.32-beta, was made in early July
- No new Tomcat 5.0 or 5.5 releases, 5.5.17 is still stable and latest

People:
- New committer: Rainer Jung <rjung@apache.org>
- New PMC members: none
- New PMC chair: Yoav Shapira (yoavs@apache.org)

-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Muse project has accepted a contribution from IBM which will be the 
basis for a combined implementation of the WS-RF, WS-Notifications, 
WS-Lifetime and WSDM specifications. The contributed codebase will also 
allow the software to be a pluggable architecture for adding a 
developers own implementation of a given spec. This is part of the 
collapsing of WSRF and Pubscribe into the Muse project and moving 
towards deployment to Axis 2.

Activity in the Woden project is heating up. The W3C is planning 
a WSDL 2.0 interop event to be held at the IBM Toronto Lab, July 5-7. 
The W3C has developed an XML format for comparing WSDL 2.0 Component 
Model instances generated by implementations and Woden now supports this 
format and has published results against the [[WWW] W3C Test Suite]. 
The Woden implementation has been upgraded to support all the extensions 
described in Part 2 of the specification. Work is now underway to 
integrate Woden into Axis2 for the interop event. A Woden presentation 
entitled Apache Woden WSDL 2.0 Processor will also be given an 
ApacheCon Europe on June 28.

Axis2/C is doing great and is moving towards 1.0.0 with 0.92 release 
planned for mid of June 2006. There has been two new committers, 
Sanjaya and Nabeel. Axis2/C is gradually becoming feature complete 
with full MTOM and WS-Addressing support already built in.

WS PMC has voted to accept Synapse as a ws project. We are now awaiting
Incubator PMC approval.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

1. Development is going as usual, a few small features but mostly bug
   fixes, this probably explains dev list traffic slowing but traffic
   is going up on user list and JIRA.

2. The process for a new release v2.2.0 is going on right now.

3. PMC Chair change Cezar Andrei replaced Cliff Schmidt.

4. There were two JavaOne BOF's that talked about XMLBeans: XMLBeans
   2.1: A Java(tm) Technology Developer's Perspective and What You
   Need to Know About Schema Design Patterns and Java(tm) Technology.

5. From xmlbeanscxx subproject: Still moving slowly after the new
   subproject proposal sent out 03/29/06. The current plan is to call
   for a vote on this proposal after a new mentor is found to help
   Cliff Schmidt - the current mentor.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Public Relations Committee

Despite some vociferous discussions on should speak to press,
analysts, and in general "on behalf of the ASF", the PRC has been
remarkably subdued lately.  We've successfully dealt with some people
using the logo without permission (OvernightPrints, Lambda Probe
[which was TomcatProbe]).  We still need to speak to someone at
LogicBlaze regarding publicity on incubated projects
(ActiveMQ/ServiceMix) not mentioning incubator.  We had a Gartner
inquiry on Tomcat, which was dealt with by the Tomcat PMC, and Tomcat
references on http://sourceforge.net/powerbar/websphere/ werecorrected
(added "Apache") thanks to our IBM ASFers. Lastly, ask.com generously
donated two Dell PowerVault SCSI Disk Arrays and also two Dell
PowerEdge Servers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Most of the TLP move work has been completed to move Tapestry out of
Jakarta and on to the new subdomain  http://tapestry.apache.org.
Tapestry 4 and 5 now both use Maven2 to build/deploy web site updates.

Tapestry 4.1 progress has continued to pick up pace. Snapshot builds
are beginning to be released into the Maven2 snapshot repo. Plans are
also being formed to extend and improve the current set of
documentation for the 4.X branch in order to help fill in any missing
gaps. Maven2 has been incredibly helpful in this regard.

New sub-project structure:

The top level  http://tapestry.apache.org site now works in a similar
way to that of  http://tomcat.apache.org, in that each series of
Tapestry releases has their own core web sites/documentation sets to
go along with them. The sub-project sites are currently made up of
3.X/4.0/4.1/5. The tapestry4.1 site should be the new home of any new
documentation efforts for the 4.1 series.

New testing structure:

With the conversion of Maven2 it has also been decided that Tapestry
should now start using  TestNG for unit testing as it hosts a very
impressive set of features that go beyond those provided via JUnit. To
better facilitate a clear path for Tapestry users to test their own
Tapestry applications it is also planned that a new tapestry-testing
subproject will be created to document and host all of the testing
infrastructure that has thus far not been visible to Tapestry end
users.

The 4.1 series will also be using the Dojo toolkit's JavaScript based
testing infrastructure to test core functionality provided, when
possible. This comes in the form of a new library developed by Jesse
Kuhnert that bundles up the Mozilla Rhino runtime plus JUM/jsunit in
order to write test cases in JavaScript outside the confines of the
Dojo build system.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

A relatively quiet month on the Incubator front.

Projects continue to settle into the task of Incubation.  We are
currently engaged in a "doc-a-thon" at ApacheCon EU to polish the
documentation for our processes and policies.

An article discussing the Incubator was vetted by the PRC, and should
be out this month.  I have asked to see if we can get electronic
reproduction rights from the publisher for the article.

       --- Noel

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ActiveMQ

The STATUS file for the project is up to date. The code is clean and
using only Apache-compliant libraries, it has the correct copyright
notices and is in the org.apache.activemq namespace. We've got all the
software grants sorted and all developers have their CLAs on file and
accounts created. The project's active mailing lists are proof of the
vibrant community behind ActiveMQ.

The Apache ActiveMQ 4.0 final has successfully been released. For more
information about the release, see:
http://incubator.apache.org/activemq/activemq-40-release.html
Development has started on the next 4.1 release. In tandem, the 4.0
branch has continued to stablize and a 4.0.1 release should be ready
shortly. Bug fix releases should start occurring now with more
frequency.

The website home page has now been sorted out and is being checked
into svn. The static HTML is being generated from a Confluence wiki
and content is very easy to update now. See:
http://incubator.apache.org/activemq/


Abdera

Project resources have been set up with the exception of issue
tracking. (we seem to have decided to use Jira instead of Bugzilla)

The Code Grant has been received and acknowledged

James Snell's ICLA has been received and acknowledged

Rob Yates ICLA was faxed in on Friday, June 16th but has not yet been
acknowledged

The initial code drop has been checked in to SVN

All copyright notices have been updated

Notice and License are included

Ant and Maven build scripts are included

We've decided on a repository layout

The initial drop of the project site has been checked in and includes
an FAQ, Getting Started Guide, Developer's Guide and Javadocs.


ADF Faces

The STATUS file for the project has been committed. Since the name ADF
Faces is only temporary, a vote for a new name was started. The new
name Trinidad has been choosen by the community. The Community itself
is growing. Users requested enhancements which have been provided.
Also some users contributed help and patches. For wiki the Trinidad /
ADF Faces project uses the Wiki of its sponsor, the Apache MyFaces
project. Some todos have been identified at the wiki, like continuum
based nightly build.

There is discussion on integrating the skinning and PPR rendering
solutions of Trinidad into Tomahawk.


Cayenne

Cayenne 1.2 Release Candidate was announced on 5/31/2006. The first
release from the Incubator (Cayenne 2.0) is planned to immediately
follow 1.2-final. It will be exact equivalent of non-Apache release
1.2, with package names changed to org.apache.cayenne, simplifying
user migration to the new namespace.

Mike Kienenberger and Andrus Adamchik were added to the Podling PMC.

We started collecting CLA's from emeritus committers. So far CLA's for
Holger Hoffstatte and Michael Shengaout are recorded. Most of the
remaining ones are confirmed to be in the mail and should be recorded
soon.

We are  mentoring three projects as a part of Google Summer of Code
program.


Graffito

There was not so much commits on the project due to the current
commiters activities. The company Sword Technologies donates new
Graffito services (worfklow, news management , mail and scheduler
services). Christophe will try to review and commit this code asap.

The Spring support is finished for the OCM Tools. Now the OCM tools
will be used in the complete Graffito stack. By this way, the Graffito
persistence service can access to JCR repositories.

Graffito is working with Jetspeed 2 head.


Kabuki

The contributing vendor backed out in favor of their own alliance
group without ever really getting started in the Incubator.  Unless
there is interest within the ASF, the Incubator PMC will retire this
project.


log4net

The log4net team has recently release 1.2.10. This release includes
many minor fixes which dramatically improve the quality of the
release. Since the release we have been tracking user feedback to
define our priorities for the next release.


log4php

After committing log4php PHP5 base code, not much going on this month.
No users has sent contributions and the mailing lists have low
activity. Hope to get some user contributions in the next month or
two...


Lucene.Net

Lucene.Net continues to progressing. Recently Lucene.Net 1.9 RC1 build
4 Beta was released and it's on its way to become "final" by the end
of the month. Folks are beginning to discover Lucene.Net and
activities on the project from posting questions and code fixes are
beginning to show some signs of life however, things are still slow in
terms of participation. Lucene.Net can use some publicity and exposure
which I intend to start doing.


Ode

Code from both BPE and PXE has been checked into the project's
subversion repository with appropriate headers, and the group is
prototyping and discussing approaches for integrating the engine with
an external runtime (e.g., a "plain old JVM", a J2EE application
server, or a JBI container) and for deployment.

PXE developers are also documenting the codebase (and especially the
engine core) to get all contributors to the same level of
understanding.


OFBiz

In summary, things are progressing well. No major issues at this time.

The gathering of iCLAs is mostly completed:

  total number of our contributors with iCLAs on file: 62

  there are 15 iCLAs that has been sent but not still filed at Apache;
  we hope to see them in soon

  there are 4 contributors whom we have been unable to contact: we
  have reviewed their contributions (that are fairly small) and we
  have asked to the Incubator PMC for help with this

removed and replaced all the jar files licensed under not-allowed
licenses (mostly LGPL)

completed the migration to the new issue tracking system: now we are
using the Apache's Jira server

completed the migration to the new mailing lists

asked for a new committer's account for our new committer Jacques Le
Roux; we are waiting for it to be created


mod_ftp

No report provided.  Very little e-mail traffic, and no commits.
Appears to be dormant, and neglected.


OpenJPA

Still getting started.  No report provided, although there is somewhat
active e-mail traffic (average of about 1 e-mail per day over the past
two months).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

o Current Release

The current release remains Ant 1.6.5 which was released on June 2,
2005. There have been no releases since the previous board report.

o Ant 1.7

Ant 1.7 Release is now being planned. The release plan is being
developed here: http://wiki.apache.org/ant/Ant17/Planning

We are currently a little behind the schedule envisaged.

o Development Activities

There are two development activities of note:

1. We have retired a number of tasks which were previously included
with Ant. These tasks relate to third party tools, where the required
supporting library is no longer actively supported. Tasks related to
the following have been removed:

* xslp
* icontract
* Visual Age for Java
* testlet
* JProbe
* Metamata

2. JUnit 4 integration

Two Ant committers (Steve Loughran and Jesse Glick) participated in a
call with two of the JUnit4 developers regarding the best way to
support JUnit 4 within Ant. The existing Ant tasks will support JUnit
4 but the JUnit people will develop and host their own, more capable
tasks.

The call was originally initiated by the JUnit folks and Steve
provided a write up for the dev list.

I think both of these actions are in line with our goal of keeping the
Ant core focused and having tasks either hosted with their supporting
libraries or in separate Antlibs.

o Legal Issues

None.

o PMC/Committers

No changes.

o Community

Community is healthy - no issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Apache Beehive Project 

Summary
=======
- Had a quiet quarter
- Proposals are floating around for future project directions
- Work progresses on web service metadata for Axis; I expect this will
be wrapped up during the next month or so.

Community
========
Community is starting to discuss some future directions, particularly
related to Controls.  In other areas, we're adding enhancements
requested by users -- mostly these changes come from existing
committers rather than from community patches.

Releases
=======
No new releases.

Relationships
==========
We are currently engaged with Axis in providing JSR-181 support for
Axis1 and Axis2.  We are also still awaiting the JSR-181 TCK.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment S: Status report for the Apache Conference Planning


-----------------------------------------
Attachment T: Status report for the Apache DB Project 

It has been an exciting quarter for the DB project. We added nine
folks to the PMC, have two exciting projects which we are sponsoring
in the Incubator, and

PMC Additions:
    Thomas Vandahl
    Andrew McIntyre
    Rick Hillegas
    Knut Anders Hatlen
    Kathey Marsden
    Mike Matrigali
    Satheesh Bandaram
    Bernt Johnsen
    Bryan Pendleton

New Committers:
    Halley Pacheco de Oliveira (derby)
    Suresh Thalamati (derby)
    Andreas Kornelliussen (derby)

Releases:
    Derby released 10.1.3
    JDO Released the JSR-243 API and TCK under the Apache License

Incubator Action:
    Cayenne
        Made final non-Apache release, seem to be doing well.
        Has a quite happy and productive community going.

    OpenJPA
        Initial codebase import has been made!

Various Notes:
    Craig Russell: "[JDO] continues to make progress toward a maintenance
                    release of the API and TCK, using the wiki and email
                    as communication vehicles."

    Geir Magnusson, Jr.: "Apache JDO rocks! :)"

    Thomas Fischer: "Torque is making progress to the 3.2.1 release."

    Derby is scheduled to be included as part of Sun's Java 6 development kit.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment U: Status report for the Apache Directory Project 

PMC Changes & New Committers
============================

Since April we've seen two new people added to the PMC: Ersin Er, and
Stefan  Zoerner.  Peter Royal who just became a member of the ASF is now
a committer on the MINA subproject of Directory, and Jim Jag. is also a
new committer on MINA and ApacheDS.


Software Releases and Goals
===========================

We've been consistently (about every 2-3 months) releasing what we
consider candidates for a 1.0 GA release but they have been falling
short of our requirements.  We'll keep fixing bugs and offering release
candidates until we meet the mark of a GA worthy server.  We're not
rushing this.  It takes time to find memory leaks and multi-threaded
issues within a long running server.

MINA has had a couple releases as well and the user community is growing
rapidly.  MINA is an amazing success.  Peter and I would like to propose
MINA for a TLP since MINA really does not belong under the Directory TLP
even if it was created for ApacheDS' protocol related needs here at
Directory.

Expect a proposal soon :).

Software Contributions
======================

We've been very slow on the uptake of a contribution by CA for an LDAP
browser client called JXPlorer.  Here's a link to the client if anyone
is interested in looking at it: http://www.jxplorer.org/.

I've dropped the ball on this one and have to contact CA to pick it up
again.  This will most likely lead to an incubator proposal to vet the IP.


Committer Activity
==================

Recently our activity on ApacheDS has been decreasing.  The server is
very complicated and there are several protocols to manage in one
server.  Besides striving to be an LDAP protocol server, ApacheDS
contains plugins that enable it to master and serve DNS records in the
LDAP directory.  Likewise, it contains a partial DHCP server and a
Kerberos server backing their information in the LDAP tree.  This is all
thanks to MINA BTW.  Essentially it's looking as though we have all the
capabilities of a simple windows 2003 server in one process minus the
file system services.  All of this backed by LDAP.

Although a herculean effort, most of the non-LDAP plugin code has been
written by a single person.  At most two people can maintain it
currently.  IMO this is not a very healthy place for us to be especially
with our recent diminished activity and the proposal to promote MINA to
a TLP.  Before the communities were intertwined.  Now we're finding a
warranted split occurring.  However I worry most for sustaining the same
quality of development with community support on the ApacheDS side more
so than the MINA side.  MINA will explode with activity IMO because its
more general purpose and it does have a smaller learning curve.  FYI
it's only about 30-40K in size while ApacheDS is 10 times that.

I've taken two steps to make sure we're get out of our slump and start
growing healthily to accommodate these changes and to prevent us from
fragmenting into an umbrella with 1-2 man subprojects like for example
the logging TLP.

(1) I've tried to both privately and publicaly warn the main developer
of the non-LDAP modules.  He cannot sustain these modules as a one man
show without risking a fallback to the incubator.  The message was
specifically to share knowledge and grow the amount of committers and
users of these modules.

(2) I contacted the PMC and told them of my worries.  I've also offered
some options for overcoming these problems.  We have several consistent
contributors that are not quite there but have patches and other things
waiting in queue for committers to pickup in JIRA.  We proposed lowering
our barrier of entry for new committers for a quarter to pull these
peeps on the periphery into our committer base.  These novice committers
will be expected to follow a review then commit process on non-sandbox
areas until senior committers think they no longer need to obtain
approval. Currently there is a vote underway to install this process for
the duration of 1 quarter starting in and including July.

In conclusion, this is not something to freak out over.  Our PMC simply
feels that this is more a precautionary measure to prevent a potential
spiral downward.  We want to be more effective in engaging those that
are interested in contributing and to fuel the growth of the community.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment V: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project 


-----------------------------------------
Attachment W: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project 

This has been a busy month for the Incubator PMC, considering a number of
new submissions, such as:

  CeltixFire - a multiple vendor submission for a SOA platform
  Blaze - a proposed standard and set of implementations for messaging
          middleware interop
  Heraldry - an identity project

The Incubator continues to grow, and I have approached Dave Reid about
helping us to send out reminders to all of the Incubator projects, just as
he does for the rest of the ASF.

The Incubator PMC is reviewing our practices regarding Mentoring, and
revising our documentation in general.  Many thanks to Robert Burrell
Donkin, Noirin Plunkett, Justin Erenkrantz, Jean T. Anderson, and others for
their gratefully received contributions.

One good discussion has been on branding of projects in the Incubator.
Another good discussion was about the use of IRC, incorporated experiences
from multiple projects that use IRC, and effected the plans of at least one
Incubator project to use IRC.

Another topic that we are starting to discuss with an eye towards execution
is a policy on project dormancy, and what exactly to do to effect such a
project status.

Lastly, Cliff Schmidt raised the issue of disclosure regarding people being
contracted to act as Mentors, and the Incubator PMC agreed on a disclosure
policy that provides disclosure without appearing to be advertising.

============================================================================

=== Abdera ===

 1. Continued work on the code, working towards a 0.1.0 release
 1. Added two new committers to the project (Stephen Duncan and Garrett
Rooney). Stephen is still in discussions with his employer regarding his
CLA.
 1. Rob Yates' ICLA has been received and account set up
 1. Jira has been set up

=== Agila ===

The interest around the BPEL implementation in Agila has mostly moved to Ode
and the workflow part isn't evolving so declaring the project as dormant
sounds fair enough.

=== AltRMI ===

Nothing happening.  Incubator PMC likely to declare this project as dormant
as soon as we establish the mechanics.


=== Felix ===

Upayavira says "Felix progresses well as a community, increasing in
maturity, and I believe that Felix is nearly ready to graduate. In
preparation for that we have been going over the relevant issues:
auditing licensing of code and libraries, porting non-ASF services onto
ASF hardware (a Confluence wiki) and improving our public website."

Other details:

Community:
  * Stephane Frenot was added as a committer.
  * Defined and accepted Felix community roles and processes document.
  * Working with Maven community to get OSGi packaging features into the
Maven core with the involvement of Jason van Zyl and Peter Kriens.
  * Announced "Felix Commons" initiative for bundling common libraries for
use in the OSGi framework.
  * Working on and nearing completion of various graduation tasks, such as
license verification.

Code:
  * iPOJO project contribution which uses byte code instrumentation to
enable POJOs to be used in an OSGi environment and to simplify OSGi
development.
  * Event Admin standard OSGi R4 service implementation committed along with
bridges for UPnP, Wire Admin, and User Admin.
  * Managed OSGi framework using JMX committed.
  * Committed major updates to the OSGi Maven plugin to simplify bundle
packaging by auto-generating bundle metadata with the involvement of Peter
Kriens.
  * Many improvements to core Felix OSGi framework, such as auto-detecting
which core packages to export based on the current execution environment.
  * Several OSGi-related presentations at ApacheCon EU from Felix community
members.

Licensing:
  * Migrated Service Binder to kxml2 to avoid licensing issues with kxml1,
thanks to community member Jan Rellermeyer.
  * Need further investigation of MX4J licensing; it appears to be a
derivative of the Apache license.
  * Need further investigation of javax.microedition licensing.
  * Ensured that all source code has appropriate license headers

=== FtpServer ===

Nothing happening.  Incubator PMC likely to declare this project as dormant
as soon as we establish the mechanics.

=== Graffito ===

Raphael Luta is currently the only mentor for the Graffito project
that has been under incubation for nearly 2 years now.

Graffito is a CMS system now built on top of Jackrabbit and providing
a portlet based user interface. As such it is mostly suited to integrate
with portal containers like Jetspeed but some of the services provided
(like JCR mapping) can be useful outside of portal context.

While we've managed to slowly build a community around the initial
2 men codebase, we're still very far from having a sustainable
independant community around Graffito.

Due to his numerous other activities, Raphael feels he cannot provide alone
the adequate mentoring required by this project and so we are looking for
additionnal mentors to help grow the Graffito community and graduate it.

=== Harmony ===

The Harmony project continues to grow in both community and code.

On the community side, our mail list traffic continues to increase, with an
all-time high of 1495 messages on the dev list in June.  As of this writing,
there are 895 messages so far for July. These numbers do not include any
commit or JIRA traffic.  Content of the list is fairly healthy, concerned
with the technical aspects of both our virtual machines as well as the class
library.  Recent donations are increasing the diversity of participation in
terms of individuals, with the majority of new faces participating in and
around the virtual machine donation from Intel.  Mail list traffic on the
ppmc list is very low, and with the exception of one issue related to a
contribution, pertains only to new committer and ppmc member discussion and
votes.  We have added 4 new committers, have several identified as
potential, and have recently voted to add committers to the PPMC (although
they haven't been notified as of this moment).

On the technical side, we have been fortunate to continue to receive code
from 3rd parties, primarily Intel.  These donations represent code that was
intended for Harmony but due to a combination of internal "process" backlog
at Intel, as well as a sensitivity to the rate at which the community can
digest and adopt the code, not all code was donated at once.  We are very
sensitive to ensuring that after a donation happens, any development on that
continues in the project, and we constantly look for ways to enable people
to help.  We have recieved significant additions like Swing/AWT/Java 2D for
the class library, as well as the "DRLVM" modern virtual machine, which now
gives us about 81% coverage of the Java 1.4 API (estimated at 78% of the
Java 5 API, our target), as well as a VM to run that with modern garbage
collection and JIT.

We are currently working through the details of using public-domain code
from Doug Lea for the "java.util.concurrent" package.  This is the
'reference implementation' for this package, and used by Sun, among others.
We wish to use this code (as it's considered the best implementation as well
as the only one available to us), and further build a bridge between our
community and the community surrounding this code (mainly the JSR-166 expert
group, and organizations like us that use it...)

=== JuiCE ===

We are waiting for things to move in the new Santuario TLP. Not much
progress otherwise.

=== Lucene4c ===

There has been no progress since the last report.  This project should
really be officially marked as dormant.

=== Lucene.Net ===

Lucene.Net continues to progress. Recently Lucene.Net 1.9 RC1 Final was
released.  In addition, Lucene.Net 1.9.1 Beta is released.  Work is underway
to release Lucene.Net 2.0 Beta by end of July. Folks are beginning to
discover Lucene.Net and activities on the project from posting questions and
code fixes are beginning to show some signs of life. However, things are
still slow in terms of participation. Lucene.Net can use some publicity and
exposure which I intend to start doing by asking to create a link to
Lucene.Net on the main Jakarta Lucene web page as well as by creating a Wiki
page for Lucene.Net.

=== Roller ===

Major new developments in Roller 3.0. Working in the roller_3.0 branch,
Allen Gilliland and Dave Johnson have been making extensive changes to
Roller's blog/page rendering system. Roller 3.0's new features are:

  * Completely new URL structure, with redirection for old URLs
    * Completely rewritten/refactored page/feed rendering system
    * View renders are pluggable
    * Made progress towards static rendering
    * All new set of page models and macros
  * Multi-language blog support, based on new URL structure
    * Front-page of Roller is now a blog with optional site-wide features:
    * Planet page model and planet display macros
    * Site-wide model supports listing of new users, new weblogs, hot
weblogs and other community oriented queries.
    * Macros for diplaying A-Z user and weblog directories

Licensing issues may be behind us. Dave Johnson worked to satisfiy ASF
licencing and packaging requirements and as a result of this work, we made
our first Roller release (2.3) on ASF infrastructure:
    * Licence headers in every file
    * Changed to org.apache package names for all Java code
    * Removed all LGPL code from release (Hibernate, JSPWiki, Jazzy, etc.)
    * Created a Roller Support project on Java.Net for non-ASF Roller
goodies such as LGPL/GPL licensed themes, plugins and other downloads.

New APP draft #9 support. The IETF released Atom Publishing Protocol (APP)
draft #9 and Dave Johnson updated Roller's APP implementation to support
this new draft. APP is an "experimental" feature in Roller and is turned off
by default.

Movement on replace-Hibernate front. Craig Russell has put together some
proposals for implementing both JPA and JDO backends for Roller -- so that
we can eventually replace our dependency on Hibernate. We nominated him for
committer status to make it easier for him to contribute, but the voting
process is still dragging on.

Multi-side patch contribution. A Norwegian company LinPro has submitted a
large patch for multi-site blogging. It looks like a very interesting and
valuable new feature but thus far nobody has had time to evaluate the code.

Community building efforts. Dave Johnson presented a talk on Roller at
ApacheCon EU 2006, designed to inspire and educate new users, developers and
contributors. The talk was well attended. Dave will present a similar talk,
but completely updated for Roller 3.0 at ApacheCon US 2006.

=== OpenEJB ===

The OpenEJB project has begun it's migration into the Incubator.  Primary
activities are setting up infrastructure and establishing a list of active
committers.  Items completed so far:
  * Status page created and published to Incubator website
  * Lists established and in active use
  * Most CLAs are in, more coming
  * Account created for Daniel Haischt

=== XAP ===

XAP made good progress since June 2006 status report. The main activities
and results are:

 * Discussed and gathered community feedback from both XAP dev list as well
as general incubator dev list about IRC meetings. As a result, decided not
to pursue general IRC activites unless specific requirements are met (The
content of IRC is to be limited to educational purpose only; some committers
are willing to volunteer to provide education and orientation and Q&A);
 * Continues to update the project with bug fixes, samples, web site fixes,
etc;
 * Discussed at the XAP dev email list and made decisions to focus more on
the Dojo toolkit;
 * Discussed at XAP dev email list and made decision about Javascript
namespace and scoping, etc.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment X: Status report for the Apache James Project 

Two beta releases (one of James core server product, one of jSPF - a 
Java impl of Sender policy framework).  No official releases yet, but 
should be soon.  No new committers or PMC members, but expect to add 
more in the next quarter.

James has really come back to life.  Lots of commits, multiple testing 
releases, energy, discussions that lead somewhere.  We have many new 
committers that are very active and working well with the aged/less active 
committers.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment Y: Status report for the Apache Maven Project 

Goings on
--------------

Things are going well within the Maven project. We have a lot of
discussions in the last few months so I'll try to summarize them here.

    * How to improve repository metadata and we're working toward
getting the Maven Repository Manager online to help with repository
and metadata issues. Often times projects that don't use Maven can
create metadata that is not entirely correct and can have a severly
bad impact on the user base.

    * We had some discussions about creating an abstraction for
dealing with issue management systems like JIRA as well. Mik Kersten
who is the author of the Mylar plugin for Eclipse has joined the
discussion as he's got an existing library for manipulating issue
management systems that would be useful to leverage.

    * How to improve the plugin documentation. We ended up creating
a plugin that checks the consistency of plugin documentation, so we
basically have a lint type system for plugin documentation so we can
ship consistent plugin documentation for releases.

    * Something in the periphery that might be of interest is that
the Phoenix/Loom container which separated from Apache and went to
Codehaus is now merging with Plexus, the container that Maven uses.
Phoenix has some amazing code but sort of fell to the wayside once it
left Apache. So Plexus benefits by getting some great code and
possibly a little bit of time from Phoenix devs, but more importantly
people who have used Phoenix/Loom in the past will now be part of
very active community.

    * A new DOAP plugin for Maven is being developed that would
allow any project using Maven at Apache to easily create DOAP files
for use with projects.apache.org. Try and get the information about
projects dispersed easier.

New Projects
------------------

No new projects.

New PMC Members
---------------------------

Mike Perham

New Committers
-----------------------

Dennis Lundberg

-----------------------------------------
Attachment Z: Status report for the Apache MyFaces Project 

Summary
=======
 * Two new Core releases
 * Two new Tomahawk releases
 * Growing community
 * Tobago incubation finished
 * Trinidad (formerly known as "ADF Faces") incubation started
 * JSF 1.2

Core Releases
===========
Latest Core implementation release: 1.1.3, published on May 9, 2006

Tomahawk Releases
===============
Latest Tomahawk components release: 1.1.3, published on June 15, 2006

Community
=========
Growing: 4 new committers since the last status report

Tobago
======
The Tobago JSF component set successfully went through incubation and
is now an official MyFaces subproject.

Trinidad (aka "ADF donation", "ADF Faces")
==========================================
The Trinidad JSF component set entered the incubator (see Incubator
status report for details).

JSF 1.2
=======
Work on a JSF 1.2 compliant implementation has started.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AA: Status report for the Apache Security Team


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AB: Status report for the Apache Struts Project 

Since our April 2006 report, our former subproject Shale has graduated to a 
top-level project. Our WebWork 2 podling also graduated from the incubator 
and has become the basis of Struts 2. Meanwhile, Struts 1 has released three 
beta releases - 1.3.2, 1.3.3, and 1.3.4 - and a Struts 1.3.5 test build is 
available and proceeding toward a release quality vote. A Struts 2.0.0 
distribution is expected next month. The new Maven builds are working well, 
despite the complexity of our distributions.

Three new committers have joined the fold: Paul Benedict, Michael Jouravlev, 
and Bob Lee. Paul and Michael are longtime members of the Struts 1 use 
community, and helped us provide new features and fixes for the Struts 1.2.9 
release. Bob Lee is a longtime member of the WebWork 2 user community and 
helped us prepare a short list of changes for the Struts 2.0.0 distribution.  

-----------------------------------------
Attachment AC: Status report for the Apache TCL Project 

Things are quiet in Tcl land.  Indeed, we've chatted a bit about what
might be involved in winding things down while we're all still active in
order to do it gracefully.  There isn't much consensus on this though,
and of course the code is still used actively by people, so we intend to
maintain it, but new work isn't likely at this point.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AD: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project 

Initial activities for setting up the project have commenced, with
initial mailing lists and web site being created.  Discussions are yet
to take place around what to do with existing mailing lists.

In terms of development activities, the Java xml-security library is
preparing for a 1.4 release and the C++ library is on final RC for a 1.3
release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AE: Status report for the Apache Shale Project 

Overview
========

Per the Apache Board resolution at the June 2006 meeting, Apache Shale
was created as a top level project.  This is the first of the "every
month for the first three months" status reports to the Board on
activities within the project.

All of the initial root and infrastructure requests have been completed.
We are still de-tangling a few loose ends (wiki and JIRA instance
shared with the Struts project), but these are not considered to be
urgent.


PMC and Committer Changes
=========================

None.


Current Development Activities
==============================

As the creation of Shale as a TLP was coming to fruition, we had nearly
completed a migration to a Maven2 based build environment.  This work
has been substantially completed, and Shale is now completely M2 based
for its build infrastructure.  Nightly builds are still currently hosted
on my (Craig's) home desktop, but steps are underway to migrate this to
a Continuum instance on Apache infrastructure.

We have initiated a contest to pick an official logo for the Apache
Shale project -- details are at <http://wiki.apache.org/shale/LogoContest>.
The entries so far have ranged from humorous to compelling ... it will
be interesting to pick a final winner.

Current release activities are focused on a 1.0.3 release, which is
still likely to be considered "beta" quality (due to dependence on
unreleased components, plus some outstanding bugs), but which has been
requested by some downstream users to avoid their need to depend on
snapshots.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment AF: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project 

Progress on Tapestry 4.1 (mostly by Jesse Kuhnert) continues,
including a converstion to a Maven 2 build. Kent Tong has finally
regained commit access to the repository.  Howard Lewis Ship has been
working on the all-new Tapestry 5 code base.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the July 19, 2006 board meeting.
