                    The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            June 27, 2006


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 14:00 (IST) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was
    recognized by the chairman at 14:22.  The meeting was held by
    teleconference, hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik (stepped out at 15:00 IST)
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein
        Sander Striker
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        none

    Guests:

        Jeremias MÃ¤rki
        Geir Magnusson Jr.

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of February 15, 2006

       SVN - {private}/foundation/board/board_minutes_2006_02_15.txt
       
       Approved by General Consent

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg had very little to report on, other than he had
       had spoken at a conference about the ASF.

    B. President [Sander]

       Work on Infrastructure is progressing.  We've had yet another
       month of troubleshooting failing hardware, next to the regular
       activities of blocking abusers, handling account requests, etc.
       A get together is planned for the people on site at ApacheCon EU
       to discuss the direction over the remainder of the year.
       Moving mail to Ecelarity is on the agenda for this month.  As
       well as inspecting the OSU OSL facilities, and possibilities.
       The contract negotiations with OSU OSL are still in progress.
       
       An offer has come back from a secretary service, for transcribing
       board meetings, sending out thank you notes for donations, and
       handling incoming fax traffic.

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       Work progresses on preparing our tax returns.  Conversations have
       occurred with Counsel about some questions I have on the returns.
       I am awaiting some clarifying responses. The Audit Committee will
       be meeting later this evening here at ApacheCon to discuss how
       the returns will be reviewed.

       Automatic payment has been set up for the infrastructure paid
       position.

       Current balances (as of 06/12/2006):

        Paypal             $  1,494.05 (+$    563.43)
        Checking           $  3,114.12 (-$ 10,683.34)
        Savings            $226,482.09 (+$    428.53)
        Total              $231,090.26 (-$  9,691.38)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim reported that the Annual ASF Members Meeting was held
       last month and was pretty successful. A large number of new
       members were added and the new board was elected. Logistically,
       the meeting went off well with no real problems or hiccups.
       With each meeting, it goes more and more smoothly.

       It was asked if all newly elected members had been
       contacted by those who had nominated them, and were
       therefore responsible for informing them of their
       elected status. Jim took the Action Item to check into
       this.

    E. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

        LICENSING HEADER: I sent a summary of the resolution passed
            at last month's meeting to the legal-discuss list and
            am compiling a short FAQ based on questions from that
            thread.  The summary and FAQ will be linked from a new
            apache.org/legal/ home page by the end of the week, and
            send a notification of the posting to committers@. I 
            originally stated that the new header would need to be
            implemented on releases on or after August 1, 2006,
            but will push that date back one month, since I was slow
            to get this out to all committers. 

        PATENT LICENSING IN CCLAS: There continues to be some degree
            of controversy over my statement on how the CCLA patent
            license should be interpreted.  I continue to state 
            that the patents are licensed for both the contribution
            and combinations of the contribution with the continuing
            evolution of the project.  In other words, the ASF is
            not interested in contributions with strings attached
            (strings = restrictions on what it can be combined with).

        SFLC LETTER ON ODF: The SFLC has asked us to review a draft 
            statement on the legal encumbrances of the OASIS ODF
            specification.  If we agree with the draft, they would 
            like to issue a statement that they are representing the
            positions on two of their clients, the ASF and FSF.

    F. VP of JCP [Geir]

       Geir noted that Sun has expressed interest in opening
       up the JSPA.
       
       It was also reported that Sun is using Derby as the
       basis for their JavaDB implementation. This resulted in
       code being committed into Derby that implemented a spec
       that was both encumbered as well as not publically
       viewable by all committers. The DB project will report
       on this next month.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Garrett Rooney / Justin]

       See Attachment A

       Tabled due to time constraints.
       
    B. Apache Excalibur Project [J. Aaron Farr / Sam]

       See Attachment B

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    C. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Ken]

       See Attachment C

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    D. Apache iBATIS Project [Ted Husted / Cliff]

       See Attachment D

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    E. Infrastructure Team [Sander Striker]

       See Attachment E

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    F. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Roy T. Fielding / Dirk]

       See Attachment F

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    G. Apache Jakarta Project [Henri Yandell]

       See Attachment G

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    H. Apache Lucene Project [Doug Cutting / Jim]

       See Attachment H

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    I. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Greg]

       See Attachment I

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    J. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Daniel Quinlan / Cliff]

       See Attachment J

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    K. Apache Tomcat Project [Remy Maucherat / Justin]

       See Attachment K

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    L. Apache Web Services Project [Davanum Srinivas / Greg]

       See Attachment L

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    M. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Dirk]

       See Attachment M

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    N. Public Relations Committee [Brian W. Fitzpatrick / Sander]

       See Attachment N

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    O. Apache Tapestry Project [Howard M. Lewis Ship / Henri]

       See Attachment O

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    P. Apache Incubator Project [Noel Bergman / Jim]

       See Attachment P

       Tabled due to time constraints.

    Q. Apache Ant Project [Conor MacNeill / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

       Tabled due to time constraints.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Officer Appointments
    
       Chairman
         Greg Stein
         
       President
         Sander Striker
         
       Secretary
         Jim Jagielski
         
       Executive Vice President
         Jim Jagielski

       Treasurer
         Justin Erenkrantz

       By Unanimous Vote, the above Officer Appointments were
       Approved.

    B. Change of Tomcat PMC Chair

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors heretofore appointed Remy
       Maucherat to the office of Vice President, Apache Tomcat
       Project, and
                  
       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is in receipt of the
       resignation of Remy Maucherat from the office of Vice
       President, Apache Tomcat Project;
            
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Remy Maucherat is relieved
       and discharged from the duties and responsibilities of the
       office of Vice President, Apache Tomcat Project, and
      
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Yoav Shapira be and hereby is
       appointed to the office of Vice President, Apache Tomcat
       Project, to serve in accordance with and subject to the
       direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of the
       Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed.

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6B, Change of Tomcat PMC Chair,
       was Approved.
       
    C. Establish the Apache Shale Project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to the continued implementation of
       the web application framework currently known as Apache Struts
       Shale, and similar extensions of the JavaServer Faces API, for
       distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Shale PMC", be and hereby
       is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the Shale PMC be and hereby is responsible for
       the creation and maintenance of software related to creatio n
       and maintenance of open-source software and documentation
       related to the Shale Framework based on software licensed to
       the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Shale" be and
       hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at
       the direction of the Board of Directors as the chair of the
       Shale PMC, and to have primary responsibility for management of
       the projects within the scope of responsibility of the Shale
       PMC; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Shale PMC:

         * Craig McClanahan <craigmcc@apache.org>
         * James Mitchell <jmitchell@apache.org >
         * Greg Reddin <greddin@apache.org>
         * Sean Schofield <schof@apache.org>
         * Wendy Smoak <wsmoak@apache.org>
         * Gary VanMatre <gvanmatre@apache.org>
         * Matthias Wessendorf <matzew@apache.org>
                            
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Craig McClanahan
       be appointed to the office of Vice President, Shale, to serve
       in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board of
       Directors and the Bylaws of the Foundation until death,
       resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification, or until
       a successor is appointed; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Shale PMC be and hereby is tasked
       with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to encourage open
       development and increased participation in the Shale Project;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Shale PMC be and hereby is tasked
       with the migration and rationalization of the Apache Struts
       Shale subproject; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache
       Struts Shale sub-project and encumbered upon the Apache Struts
       PMC are hereafter discharged.

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6C, Establish the Apache Shale
       Project, was Approved.

    D. Establish the Apache Santuario project

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish a Project Management
       Committee charged with the creation and maintenance of
       open-source software related to XML security technologies,
       for distribution at no charge to the public.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Project Management
       Committee (PMC), to be known as the "Apache Santuario
       PMC", be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the
       Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Santuario PMC be and hereby is
       responsible for the creation and maintenance of software
       related to XML security technologies, based on software licensed
       to the Foundation; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Apache Santuario"
       be and hereby is created, the person holding such
       office to serve at the direction of the Board of Directors as
       the chair of the Apache Santuario PMC, and to have primary
       responsibility for management of the projects within the
       scope of responsibility of the Apache Santuario PMC; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the initial members of the
       Apache Santuario PMC:

         * Axl Mattheus <amattheu@apache.org>
         * Berin Lautenbach <blautenb@apache.org>
         * Davanum Srinivas <dims@apache.org>
         * Raul Benito <raul@apache.org>
         * Sean Mullan <mullan@apache.org>
         * Werner Dittman <werner@apache.org>

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Berin Lautenbach
       <blautenb@apache.org> is appointed to the office of Vice President,
       Apache Santuario, to serve in accordance with and subject
       to the direction of the Board of Directors and the Bylaws of
       the Foundation until death, resignation, retirement, removal or
       disqualification, or until a successor is appointed; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Santuario PMC be and
       hereby is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
       encourage open development and increased participation in the
       Apache Santuario Project; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the initial Apache Santuario PMC be and
       hereby is tasked with the migration and rationalization of the
       Apache XML PMC, XML Security subproject; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that all responsibility pertaining to the Apache XML,
       XML Security sub-project and encumbered upon the Apache XML PMC
       are hereafter discharged.

       By Unanimous Vote, Special Order 6D, Establish the Apache Santuario
       Project, was Approved.

 7. Discussion Items

    Tabled due to time constraints.

 8. Review of Current Action Items

    Tabled due to time constraints.

 9. Unfinished Business

    Tabled due to time constraints.

10. New Business

    Sander reported that he had received a proposal for
    secretarial support services, for things such as FAX
    acceptance and scanning and sending out the required
    IRS Thank You notes. The cost was $1000 euros per
    month (a 3 month term is required). Jim was to obtain
    other proposals for comparison purposes.

11. Announcements

    Tabled due to time constraints.

12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 16:00 (IST). Adjourned at 15:49 (IST)


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Since our last report the APR project has been progressing largely as
usual.  There has been activity in a few areas, along with a little
reshuffling of the committers and PMC, along with one release.

The only issues I am aware of that require the board's attention are
legal related.

First, we are still awaiting finalized versions of the third party
code licensing policy, and although we are unaware of any problems
with the current draft policies it would be awfully nice to get them
officially finalized.

Second, work has begun on an addition to APR-Util that provides an SSL
socket abstraction.  This will mean that we are for the first time
shipping code that depends on cryptographic libraries, and will have
to learn the current best practices for dealing with that.  At the
moment, the current plan is to use whatever the HTTP Server project is
doing as a template for our handling of this issue, but an ASF wide
"way to deal with this stuff" would certainly be nice to have.

On the personel front, Nick Kew was added to the PMC, Bojan Smojver
was voted in as a committer for his work on the DBD portions of
APR-Util, and Brian Pane resigned from the PMC due to a lack of time
to work on APR.  He will, of course, be welcomed back should he decide
to become active again.

One thing to note regarding new committers/PMC members is that we are
finding that much of our new activity is in the DBD library in
APR-Util, which is making it somewhat hard to elect new committers due
to the lack of PMC members who are actively involved in that work.
I'm sure this is a problem that will work itself out as new PMC
members emerge from that part of the project.

We have also had two releases since the last report, APR/APR-Util
1.2.7 and APR/APR-Util 0.9.12.  These were entirely bug fix releases,
mainly needed to fix build issues on Win32/Netware, and there were no
new features included.

Other than that, activity on the mailing lists seems reasonable, we're
getting a fair amount of activity originating from users of the
project, and all seems to generally be well in APR land.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

  * We are in the process of giving back gump.osuosl.org since we
    simply lack the people to take care of it.
        
Technical:
        
  * Our biggest problem right now is the lack of support for and by
    Maven 2 which needs to get addressed if we don't want to see more
    Java projects become unbuildable.
          
  * SourceForge CVS has been having problems since late March, when
    anonymous CVS dropped out of sync with the private
    repositories. In mid-may the site moved from having one CVS server
    for everything, to having a separate hostname for every project's
    repository. For Gump, this means that every sourceforge-hosted
    project needs to have their own repository file and the existing
    builds need to be completely purged. Currently only a few projects
    have been migrated due to their ubiquitousness (JUnit) or due to
    the effort of the project members themselves. Obviously, only
    project members who are also apache committers can do this
    unaidedely, which pushes more work onto the gump team.
     
    Until a full migration takes place, sourceforge-hosted projects
    will be built using a source snapshot of early May. This is going
    to lead to problems the longer the migration is put off.
     
Other:
     
  * still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.
        
  * no releases.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project

Since our March 2006 report, the iBATIS community has continue to
make positive advances.

The team has been using "issue driven development" with good effect.
Development discussions are being attached as comments to JIRA
tickets, helping to keep the discussions focussed, organized, and easy
to find for future reference. Since the comments are posted to dev@,
it's still easy to follow along with only a mailreader.

iBATIS continues to find acceptance in the wider development
community.  High profile sites like MySpace, DevX, JavaLobby, and
dzone, all use either the .NET or Java implementation in production.

Also since our last report, one new committer (Jon Tirsen) has joined
the team, and the 1.3 version of our .NET implemented was found to be
of "General Availability" quality.

Team Member Clinton Begin has been invited to join the ASF as a
Member.  Other team members are submitting proposals for iBATIS talks
for ApacheCon 2006 US, which will hopefully draw additional iBATIS
developers to Texas this year.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Infrastructure Team


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

---Status---

This quarter saw HiveMind becoming a TLP - it is waiting on its infra
requests to complete its move. The proposal for JMeter and Cactus to
form a testing.apache.org TLP was tabled by the board until the
following month (the meeting this report is for).

There was a lot of activity on the Jakarta General mailing list -
first passing a vote to merge SVN karma and then rejecting a vote to
move the Commons Sandbox up to the Jakarta level. The concept of
Jakarta containing a set of "Xxx Components" groupings has some
momentum, and there were various threads of discussion concerning the
chair's pushing of Jakarta to thinking of itself as a single community
and not a set of communities.

Struts suggested Tiles as a first component within a Web Components
grouping - but nothing has happened as yet. Geronimo are hoping for a
Commons Modeler release soon to help with their 1.1 release. There was
discussion as to how best to handle copyright dates - Cliff is aware
of this but we haven't brought it up on legal-discuss yet.

---Releases---

  * 15 June 2006 - Commons Chain 1.1 Released
  * 13 June 2006 - JMeter 2.2 Released
  *  8 June 2006 - Commons FileUpload 1.1.1 Released
  * 06 June 2006 - BCEL 5.2 Released
  * 14 May 2006 - Commons Collections 3.2 Released
  * 14 May 2006 - Commons Logging 1.1 Released
  * 08 May 2006 - Commons HttpClient 3.0.1 Released
  * 25 April 2006 - Commons SCXML promoted out of Commons Sandbox
  * 23 April 2006 - HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0-alpha1 Released
  * 13 April 2006 - Tapestry 4.0.2 Released
  * 03 April 2006 - Commons Pool 1.3 Released
  * 01 April 2006 - Tapestry 3.0.4 Released
  * 01 April 2006 - Tapestry 4.0.1 Released
  * 26 March 2006 - Cactus 1.7.2 Released
  * 24 March 2006 - Commons Validator 1.3.0 Released
  
---Community changes---
  
New committers
  * 26 March 2006 - Roland Weber (rolandw)
  
PMC
  * 27 March 2006 - Emmanuel Bourg (ebourg)
  * 14 June 2006 - Aaron Smuts (asmuts)
  
---Infrastructure news---
                              
Subversion karma within Jakarta has changed this quarter so that any
member of Jakarta has access to any part of Jakarta with the exception
of Jakarta POI which has concerns over NDAs concerning its subject
matter.

Jakarta Commons and Jakarta HttpComponents both moved from Bugzilla to
JIRA.

---Subproject news---

BCEL

The main contributors have left the project over the years.  Obviously
still quite a few users though. With a few people we managed so apply
the outstanding patches and close many bugs.  After 3 years we just
released BCEL 5.2 as a bugfix release.  Due to the lack of recent
activity at least 2 communites (findbugs and aspectj) are known to
have forked BCEL and maintain their own version. They have implemented
features (JDK1.5 support, speed and memory handling improvements) that
we would like try to port back.  A GSoC student is currently trying to
implement JDK1.5 and -if time permits- JDK1.6 support in
BCEL. Contribution happens through jira without a special branch. We
are in contact with the other communities. No one is excited yet - we
got positive feedback. They are interested in JDK 1.6 support as
well. We might have a chance to drag them back to BCEL. This could be
a good chance to increase the number of active committers
again. Hopefully we will see another relase after the GSoC.

Unfortunately only few PMC members (at least two) are on the
development list at the moment.

BCEL moved to maven2 as build system.

---Cactus---

Cactus had a submission (regarding build Cactus with Maven 2 and
providing a Maven 2 Cactus plugin) for the Google's Summer of Code
initiative, but unfortunately it did not get ranked high enough to be
accepted. On the brigher side, the student (Petar) said he would still
want to contribute to the project, so we might get some activities in
that direction in the upcoming quarter.

We also had a nice patch regarding a new feature provided by a user,
but it has not been incorporated to the source code yet.

Finally, the Cargo integration has not been completed yet.

---Commons Chain---

Commons Chain released version 1.1. This contained a number of
enhancements and bug fixes, most of which had sitting in the
repository a while (initial/last release was December 2004).

---Commons Collections---

Commons Collections released version 3.2. This contained lots of bug
fixes and a few new classes. Collections is a widely used project
which doesn't have nearly enough releases (one every 18 months or
so). Hopefully we can look at creating a generics version of the
project before too long.

---Commons DBCP---

After several months of inactivity at the end of last year, bug fixes
have now resumed and a release plan for a patch level release has been
published.

---Commons FileUpload---

Commons FileUpload released version 1.1.1. This was a minor
maintenance release to fix two bugs found since version 1.1 was
released in December 2005.

---Commons Jelly---

Jelly has had some active discussion and bug fixing development, as
well as upgrading the dependencies to a later version of dom4j and
jaxen. There are calls, but as yet no definitive plan for a release of
some of the taglibs and core.

---Commons Logging---

The long awaited JCL 1.1 was at last released. JCL has a tiny codebase
but is difficult to work on. It is used by a huge number of projects
both open source and commercial as well as being shipped with most
J2EE containers but the 1.0.x series of releases have some pretty
fundamental issues with (in particular) many implementations of the
later J2EE specifications. It is also unfortunate that JCL is forced
to work around deficiencies in these specifications. Though there were
only a small number of code changes, these were backed by much larger
quantities of analysis.

---Commons Math---

Commons math development continues with bug fixes and enhancements.  A
library including numerical linear algebra and analysis routines on
the commons math roadmap (as well as some other things) is being
considered for inclusion. The incubator IP clearance process will be
followed if the community agrees to accept the code.

---Commons Pool---

Commons Pool floundered last year. Too few active committers meant
that patches from developers were not being review. Pool is widely
used and its flaws unfortunately effected negatively many downstream
users. Thanks to the efforts of Sandy MacArthur, this situation has
been addressed and a 1.3 release cut. After some effort, the legal
hurdles were passed for the import of his composite pool
implementation (developed outside the ASF).

---Commons SCXML---

The Commons SCXML (State Chart XML) project has been promoted from
Commons Sandbox to Commons Proper. Commons SCXML provides a generic
state-machine based execution environment. It borrows most semantics
from its namesake Working Draft at the W3C. Anything that can be
represented as a UML state chart -- business process flows, view
navigation bits, interaction or dialog management, and many more --
can leverage the Commons SCXML library.

Commons SCXML was the most active component in the Commons Sandbox
repository and the Commons user mailing list for the last three
months. A first release plan has been drafted. At least one project
(in Jakarta Taglibs) will be immediately using Commons SCXML after its
first release.

---Commons Validator---

Commons Validator released version 1.3.0. This contained a number of
bug fixes for Validator 1.2.0 (released Nov. 2005) and a whole new
package of date/time/number validators.

---HttpComponents---

The most important thing first: [WWW] HttpComponents has a shiny new
logo, mostly red with vertical violet lines adding some contrast and
matching nicely with the feather in the Jakarta logo.

Bug tracking has moved from bugzilla to JIRA for both HttpClient and
HttpComponents. A new Client HTTP Programming Primer in the wiki
simplifies the life of new users.

The release of HttpComponents HttpCore 4.0-alpha1 in April is to be
followed by an alpha2 in June. That is a prerequisite for Axis2
switching from a fork of HttpClient test code to HttpCore, making them
our first official user! Work on HttpClient 4.0 is making progress on
the coding front. For the time being, this component will also include
the cookie, authentication and connection management code to reduce
the overhead for release management.  HttpAsync has seen some design
documentation being added and will pick up on coding in the next
quarter.

For HttpClient 3, there was a minor bugfix release 3.0.1. Work on the
3.1 release that will include the Cookie2 support from last year's
GSoC is in progress. Our apologies for the delay, but there is really
a lot of tedious work to be done to get HttpComponents up to speed, so
HttpClient 3 development had to be cut back to life support for a
while. Cookie2 support is expected to be the last major addition to
the old code base.

---JCS---

The JCS project added a new auxiliary--the JDBC disk cache. It's
highly scalable and is being used in production environments, backed
my MySQL. There were also a few small bug fixes. We also reduced the
number of dependencies to just two: util-concurrent and
commons-logging.

We added a getting started guide and substantially improved the
documentation. We are working on improving the FAQ and the Remote
Cache Server documentation.

We held a vote for a release. Everyone was in favor, and we should be
taking the next steps soon.

---JMeter---

Release 2.2 includes a lot of bug fixes and new functionality. We
decided to abandon Java 1.3 support with this release (performance on
1.3 was not good and some features did not work). There's still plenty
to do, as always.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

OVERVIEW

Lucene has had an active quarter, with new releases, sub-projects and
committers.  The top-level project added a new PMC member, Andrzej
Bialecki.

LUCENE JAVA

The Lucene Java sub-project, our flagship, made two releases, 1.9 and
2.0.  This was a major milestone.  The 1.9 release revised a number of
public APIs, deprecating the old APIs, and the 2.0 release removed all
of the old, now-deprecated APIs.

We added two new committers: Grant Ingersoll and Chris Hostetter.

This project also added nightly builds.

NUTCH

Nutch implements a crawler-based web search engine.  Development
towards Nutch's 0.8 release is steady.  This is a fundamental change,
moving Nutch on top of Hadoop's distributed computing platform.  Lots
of other smaller changes are in progress and we hope to release 0.8 in
the next quarter.  A Nutch installation searching Apache web
properties should also soon be publicly available.

HADOOP

Hadoop is a new sub-project developing a distributed computing
platform.  It's committers include Mike Cafarella, Andrzej Bialecki
and Doug Cutting from Nutch, and one new committer, Owen O'Malley.
Yahoo! is contributing lots of developers to this project and it is
making great progress.  Hadoop makes monthly releases, with patch
releases one week later.  So it has had a series of more than six
releases in all.  Yahoo!  has demonstrated good scalability of Hadoop
on clusters of over 600 machines.

SOLR

Solr is in incubation, based on software donated by CNET, developing
an enterprise search server based on Lucene.  It's development is
active, and needs only to build a more diverse community before it is
ready to exit the incubator.

LUCY

Lucy is a new Lucene sub-project, still in its infancy.  It will
develop a shared C-based core for ports of Lucene to other languages,
such as Perl, Python and Ruby.  Its initial committers are David
Balmain, Marvin Humphries and Doug Cutting.

LUCENE.NET

This is an incubator project, providing a C# port of Lucene.  It has
only a single committer, but hopes to soon add more.

LUCENE4C

This is an incubator project that does not appear to have made any
progress this quarter.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Portals Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

Muse project has accepted a contribution from IBM which will be the 
basis for a combined implementation of the WS-RF, WS-Notifications, 
WS-Lifetime and WSDM specifications. The contributed codebase will also 
allow the software to be a pluggable architecture for adding a 
developers own implementation of a given spec. This is part of the 
collapsing of WSRF and Pubscribe into the Muse project and moving 
towards deployment to Axis 2.

Activity in the Woden project is heating up. The W3C is planning 
a WSDL 2.0 interop event to be held at the IBM Toronto Lab, July 5-7. 
The W3C has developed an XML format for comparing WSDL 2.0 Component 
Model instances generated by implementations and Woden now supports this 
format and has published results against the [[WWW] W3C Test Suite]. 
The Woden implementation has been upgraded to support all the extensions 
described in Part 2 of the specification. Work is now underway to 
integrate Woden into Axis2 for the interop event. A Woden presentation 
entitled Apache Woden WSDL 2.0 Processor will also be given an 
ApacheCon Europe on June 28.

Axis2/C is doing great and is moving towards 1.0.0 with 0.92 release 
planned for mid of June 2006. There has been two new committers, 
Sanjaya and Nabeel. Axis2/C is gradually becoming feature complete 
with full MTOM and WS-Addressing support already built in.

WS PMC has voted to accept Synapse as a ws project. We are now awaiting
Incubator PMC approval.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

1. Development is going as usual, a few small features but mostly bug
   fixes, this probably explains dev list traffic slowing but traffic
   is going up on user list and JIRA.

2. The process for a new release v2.2.0 is going on right now.

3. PMC Chair change Cezar Andrei replaced Cliff Schmidt.

4. There were two JavaOne BOF's that talked about XMLBeans: XMLBeans
   2.1: A Java(tm) Technology Developer's Perspective and What You
   Need to Know About Schema Design Patterns and Java(tm) Technology.

5. From xmlbeanscxx subproject: Still moving slowly after the new
   subproject proposal sent out 03/29/06. The current plan is to call
   for a vote on this proposal after a new mentor is found to help
   Cliff Schmidt - the current mentor.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Public Relations Committee

Despite some vociferous discussions on should speak to press,
analysts, and in general "on behalf of the ASF", the PRC has been
remarkably subdued lately.  We've successfully dealt with some people
using the logo without permission (OvernightPrints, Lambda Probe
[which was TomcatProbe]).  We still need to speak to someone at
LogicBlaze regarding publicity on incubated projects
(ActiveMQ/ServiceMix) not mentioning incubator.  We had a Gartner
inquiry on Tomcat, which was dealt with by the Tomcat PMC, and Tomcat
references on http://sourceforge.net/powerbar/websphere/ werecorrected
(added "Apache") thanks to our IBM ASFers. Lastly, ask.com generously
donated two Dell PowerVault SCSI Disk Arrays and also two Dell
PowerEdge Servers.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Apache Tapestry Project

Most of the TLP move work has been completed to move Tapestry out of
Jakarta and on to the new subdomain  http://tapestry.apache.org.
Tapestry 4 and 5 now both use Maven2 to build/deploy web site updates.

Tapestry 4.1 progress has continued to pick up pace. Snapshot builds
are beginning to be released into the Maven2 snapshot repo. Plans are
also being formed to extend and improve the current set of
documentation for the 4.X branch in order to help fill in any missing
gaps. Maven2 has been incredibly helpful in this regard.

New sub-project structure:

The top level  http://tapestry.apache.org site now works in a similar
way to that of  http://tomcat.apache.org, in that each series of
Tapestry releases has their own core web sites/documentation sets to
go along with them. The sub-project sites are currently made up of
3.X/4.0/4.1/5. The tapestry4.1 site should be the new home of any new
documentation efforts for the 4.1 series.

New testing structure:

With the conversion of Maven2 it has also been decided that Tapestry
should now start using  TestNG for unit testing as it hosts a very
impressive set of features that go beyond those provided via JUnit. To
better facilitate a clear path for Tapestry users to test their own
Tapestry applications it is also planned that a new tapestry-testing
subproject will be created to document and host all of the testing
infrastructure that has thus far not been visible to Tapestry end
users.

The 4.1 series will also be using the Dojo toolkit's JavaScript based
testing infrastructure to test core functionality provided, when
possible. This comes in the form of a new library developed by Jesse
Kuhnert that bundles up the Mozilla Rhino runtime plus JUM/jsunit in
order to write test cases in JavaScript outside the confines of the
Dojo build system.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Incubator Project

A relatively quiet month on the Incubator front.

Projects continue to settle into the task of Incubation.  We are
currently engaged in a "doc-a-thon" at ApacheCon EU to polish the
documentation for our processes and policies.

An article discussing the Incubator was vetted by the PRC, and should
be out this month.  I have asked to see if we can get electronic
reproduction rights from the publisher for the article.

       --- Noel

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ActiveMQ

The STATUS file for the project is up to date. The code is clean and
using only Apache-compliant libraries, it has the correct copyright
notices and is in the org.apache.activemq namespace. We've got all the
software grants sorted and all developers have their CLAs on file and
accounts created. The project's active mailing lists are proof of the
vibrant community behind ActiveMQ.

The Apache ActiveMQ 4.0 final has successfully been released. For more
information about the release, see:
http://incubator.apache.org/activemq/activemq-40-release.html
Development has started on the next 4.1 release. In tandem, the 4.0
branch has continued to stablize and a 4.0.1 release should be ready
shortly. Bug fix releases should start occurring now with more
frequency.

The website home page has now been sorted out and is being checked
into svn. The static HTML is being generated from a Confluence wiki
and content is very easy to update now. See:
http://incubator.apache.org/activemq/


Abdera

Project resources have been set up with the exception of issue
tracking. (we seem to have decided to use Jira instead of Bugzilla)

The Code Grant has been received and acknowledged

James Snell's ICLA has been received and acknowledged

Rob Yates ICLA was faxed in on Friday, June 16th but has not yet been
acknowledged

The initial code drop has been checked in to SVN

All copyright notices have been updated

Notice and License are included

Ant and Maven build scripts are included

We've decided on a repository layout

The initial drop of the project site has been checked in and includes
an FAQ, Getting Started Guide, Developer's Guide and Javadocs.


ADF Faces

The STATUS file for the project has been committed. Since the name ADF
Faces is only temporary, a vote for a new name was started. The new
name Trinidad has been choosen by the community. The Community itself
is growing. Users requested enhancements which have been provided.
Also some users contributed help and patches. For wiki the Trinidad /
ADF Faces project uses the Wiki of its sponsor, the Apache MyFaces
project. Some todos have been identified at the wiki, like continuum
based nightly build.

There is discussion on integrating the skinning and PPR rendering
solutions of Trinidad into Tomahawk.


Cayenne

Cayenne 1.2 Release Candidate was announced on 5/31/2006. The first
release from the Incubator (Cayenne 2.0) is planned to immediately
follow 1.2-final. It will be exact equivalent of non-Apache release
1.2, with package names changed to org.apache.cayenne, simplifying
user migration to the new namespace.

Mike Kienenberger and Andrus Adamchik were added to the Podling PMC.

We started collecting CLA's from emeritus committers. So far CLA's for
Holger Hoffstatte and Michael Shengaout are recorded. Most of the
remaining ones are confirmed to be in the mail and should be recorded
soon.

We are  mentoring three projects as a part of Google Summer of Code
program.


Graffito

There was not so much commits on the project due to the current
commiters activities. The company Sword Technologies donates new
Graffito services (worfklow, news management , mail and scheduler
services). Christophe will try to review and commit this code asap.

The Spring support is finished for the OCM Tools. Now the OCM tools
will be used in the complete Graffito stack. By this way, the Graffito
persistence service can access to JCR repositories.

Graffito is working with Jetspeed 2 head.


Kabuki

The contributing vendor backed out in favor of their own alliance
group without ever really getting started in the Incubator.  Unless
there is interest within the ASF, the Incubator PMC will retire this
project.


log4net

The log4net team has recently release 1.2.10. This release includes
many minor fixes which dramatically improve the quality of the
release. Since the release we have been tracking user feedback to
define our priorities for the next release.


log4php

After committing log4php PHP5 base code, not much going on this month.
No users has sent contributions and the mailing lists have low
activity. Hope to get some user contributions in the next month or
two...


Lucene.Net

Lucene.Net continues to progressing. Recently Lucene.Net 1.9 RC1 build
4 Beta was released and it's on its way to become "final" by the end
of the month. Folks are beginning to discover Lucene.Net and
activities on the project from posting questions and code fixes are
beginning to show some signs of life however, things are still slow in
terms of participation. Lucene.Net can use some publicity and exposure
which I intend to start doing.


Ode

Code from both BPE and PXE has been checked into the project's
subversion repository with appropriate headers, and the group is
prototyping and discussing approaches for integrating the engine with
an external runtime (e.g., a "plain old JVM", a J2EE application
server, or a JBI container) and for deployment.

PXE developers are also documenting the codebase (and especially the
engine core) to get all contributors to the same level of
understanding.


OFBiz

In summary, things are progressing well. No major issues at this time.

The gathering of iCLAs is mostly completed:

  total number of our contributors with iCLAs on file: 62

  there are 15 iCLAs that has been sent but not still filed at Apache;
  we hope to see them in soon

  there are 4 contributors whom we have been unable to contact: we
  have reviewed their contributions (that are fairly small) and we
  have asked to the Incubator PMC for help with this

removed and replaced all the jar files licensed under not-allowed
licenses (mostly LGPL)

completed the migration to the new issue tracking system: now we are
using the Apache's Jira server

completed the migration to the new mailing lists

asked for a new committer's account for our new committer Jacques Le
Roux; we are waiting for it to be created


mod_ftp

No report provided.  Very little e-mail traffic, and no commits.
Appears to be dormant, and neglected.


OpenJPA

Still getting started.  No report provided, although there is somewhat
active e-mail traffic (average of about 1 e-mail per day over the past
two months).

-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Ant Project

o Current Release

The current release remains Ant 1.6.5 which was released on June 2,
2005. There have been no releases since the previous board report.

o Ant 1.7

Ant 1.7 Release is now being planned. The release plan is being
developed here: http://wiki.apache.org/ant/Ant17/Planning

We are currently a little behind the schedule envisaged.

o Development Activities

There are two development activities of note:

1. We have retired a number of tasks which were previously included
with Ant. These tasks relate to third party tools, where the required
supporting library is no longer actively supported. Tasks related to
the following have been removed:

* xslp
* icontract
* Visual Age for Java
* testlet
* JProbe
* Metamata

2. JUnit 4 integration

Two Ant committers (Steve Loughran and Jesse Glick) participated in a
call with two of the JUnit4 developers regarding the best way to
support JUnit 4 within Ant. The existing Ant tasks will support JUnit
4 but the JUnit people will develop and host their own, more capable
tasks.

The call was originally initiated by the JUnit folks and Steve
provided a write up for the dev list.

I think both of these actions are in line with our goal of keeping the
Ant core focused and having tasks either hosted with their supporting
libraries or in separate Antlibs.

o Legal Issues

None.

o PMC/Committers

No changes.

o Community

Community is healthy - no issues.


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutes for the June 27, 2006 board meeting.
