                   The Apache Software Foundation

                  Board of Directors Meeting Agenda

                          September 20, 2006


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00 (Pacific) and was begun when
    a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum was recognized by
    the EVP at 10:12.  The meeting was held by teleconference,
    hosted by Jim Jagielski and Covalent:

            US Number       : 800-531-3250
            International   : 303-928-2693

    IRC #asfboard on irc.freenode.net was used for backup
    purposes.

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:

        Ken Coar
        Justin Erenkrantz
        Jim Jagielski
        Sam Ruby
        Cliff Schmidt
        Greg Stein (arrived 10:22)
        Henri Yandell

    Directors Absent:

        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Sander Striker

    Guests:

        Doug Cutting

 3. Minutes from previous meetings

    Minutes (in Subversion) are found under the URL:

        https://svn.apache.org/repos/private/foundation/board/

    A. The meeting of July 19, 2006

       SVN - {private}/foundation/board/board_minutes_2006_07_19.txt

    B. The meeting of Augest 16, 2006

       SVN - {private}/foundation/board/board_minutes_2006_08_16.txt

    Both minutes were tabled; there was discussion on what format
    the "comments" fields should take in the final minutes, as
    compared to how they are noted in the agenda. It was agreed that
    the comments should be edited to reflect exactly what was
    discussed at the meeting, and not be a simply "bullet list"
    as they are in the agendas. These comments are added to the
    agenda by the Directors upon pre-approving PMC reports.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman [Greg]

       Greg said that there was very little to report. He asked if
       anyone had questions about any issues or topics, and no
       one did.
       
    B. President [Sander]

    C. Treasurer [Justin]

       Tax returns for the 2005-2006FY have now been filed with the IRS.
       Per public disclosure regulations, the return can be downloaded at:

         http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/990-2006.pdf

       There was much relief and rejoicing.

       Per the resolution from the last meeting, a six-month contract
       offer (Sept 1, 2006 through Feb 28, 2007) was extended to Jonathan
       Jagielski, which was accepted and signed.  The first payment will
       be issued on October 1.

       Current balances (as of 09/18/2006):

        Paypal             $  1,421.02 (+$    449.05)
        Checking           $  5,440.58 (-$  7,927.04)
        Savings            $200,502.64 (+$    502.64)
        Total              $207,364.24 (-$  6,975.35)

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       A request was placed to the infrastructure team to create the
       required SVN account and Email accounts for the secretarial
       support position. This was completed, and we have made the
       transition to Jon doing the incoming iCLAs. All incoming
       iCLAs are also being scanned to PDF format, although not
       yet being committed to any ASF repos. Other ASF documents are
       also scheduled to be scanned, and a priority list is being
       crafted for this task. The complete list of member applications
       is likely to be first on the list.
       
       We have received from Nicola Ken Barozzi to have his ASF
       membership moved to Emeritus status. A signed FAX with that
       specific request was received on September 14th. The members
       list will be updated to reflect this change.

       3 checks from the Car Program ($480.90, $ 522.20 and $921.90)
       are on-route to the lock box.
       
       Cliff asked if just the iCLAs were being scanned as they
       were being received and logged. Jim reported that all
       incoming documents are now being scanned, including CCLAs
       and grants.
       
       Jim was asked the status of the increased D&O request. Jim
       reported that we did get quotes for additional coverage,
       and this was relayed to the board via the mailing list. There
       was discussion on how much D&O is "enough." Jim took the action
       item to see how much other similar-type foundations (eg: Mozilla,
       EFF) have.
       
    E. VP of Legal Affairs [Cliff]

        CRYPTO EXPORT DOCS: This work has been complete for over a 
            month and projects are now starting to use the docs/process.
            At this stage it still requires me to work closely with the
            project to ensure they understand the docs, but the system 
            is working.  This will scale better as the docs are improved
            through experience.   
 
        STANDARDS LICENSING: The standards patent covenant that I have
            mentioned giving feedback on over the last couple reports
            was made public about one week ago: the Microsoft "Open
            Specification Promise".  While it is not perfect, I 
            believe it should not block PMCs wishing to implement 
            covered specifications.

        USPTO/OSDL's OSAPA: The Open Source As Prior Art initiative 
            met in Portland, OR, last week for two days.  I was able
            to join the group for the second day to learn a little 
            about what is being planned.  Will follow-up with email
            to board@.

        THIRD-PARTY LICENSING POLICY: Haven't gotten to this yet, but
            hoping to make minor revisions and make enforcement 
            approach clear in doc (as described in previous reports)
            and then call it final, and ideally have it included in
            same email to committers as alerts on src header and 
            crypto docs.  (No change since last month) 

        OSS PROJECT CODE MOVED TO ASF: When an incubating project's
            initial code base is submitted to the ASF, our CLA 
            requires that "work that is not Your original creation"
            must be submitted "separately from any Contribution,
            identifying the complete details of its source and...
            conspicuously marking the work as "Submitted on behalf of
            a third-party: [named here]".  This presents a problem
            when the code base is an existing OSS project with 
            intermingled IP from various sources.  One solution I've
            seen in the past is for the multiple authors to jointly
            sign the same grant; however, due to a few problems with
            this approach, I've worked with one set of initial 
            contributors to create a script that uses svn blame/log 
            and a mapping file (svn id or a rev # --> legal owner) to
            output an exhaustive set of annotations to satisfy this
            requirement.     

        PATENT LICENSING IN CCLAS: I am late on getting this report
            done.  I'm still having discussions with our lawyers and
            other members of the open source community on a daily /
            weekly basis.  The goals of the report are to detail the
            ambiguities in the patent language of the current CCLA 
            and to suggest that the board consider options, such as 
            specific clarifications, revisions, and supplementary 
            processes.  These can be discussed at today's meeting if
            the board wishes; in addition, Doug Cutting would like the
            board to consider an FAQ to address some aspect of the
            CCLA's ambiguity.

        Cliff also reported that he will commit to having the
        3rd Party issues complete by ApacheCon Austin.
         
    F. VP of JCP [Geir]

       No report.
       
 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache APR Project [Garrett Rooney / Cliff]

       See Attachment A

       Justin asked if we could relay a timeframe for crypto/3rd party
       policies? Greg said that he noted that the legal report says
       crypto policy doc available? Cliff calrified that the crypto policy
       has been done and will follow up with APR.

       Approved by General Consent

    B. Apache Excalibur Project [J. Aaron Farr / Henri]

       See Attachment B

       Approved by General Consent

    C. Apache Gump Project [Stefan Bodewig / Jim]

       See Attachment C

       Justin reported that he had relayed info on machines plans
       for VMWare to the Gump PMC as requested.

       Approved by General Consent

    D. Apache HiveMind Project [James Carmen / Sander]

       See Attachment D

       Jim noted that they state that the TLP migration is still in
       progress even though it's been over 2 months and asked where is
       the holdup: at the infrastructure level or within the PMC itself.
       It was noted that many new TLP PMCs are not aware of the ins and
       outs of what is required to actually bootstrap a new TLP. The
       board decided that it was a good idea to implement a policy that
       all new TLPs are assigned a director to help them make that
       transition. Jim volunteered to be the Hivemind assignee.
       
       Greg will write up a description of this policy.

       Approved by General Consent

    E. Apache iBATIS Project [Ted Husted / Dirk]

       See Attachment E

       Cliff noted that it might have been nice if book noted in
       the report was called "Apache iBATIS in Action" for better
       mark protection. The board agreed that it was likely too late
       to make this request, but that the PRC should be a central
       point for these types of issues.

       Approved by General Consent

    F. Apache Jackrabbit Project [Jukka Zitting / Greg]

       See Attachment F

       Justin asked if the contribution for SPI recorded as a grant? Jim
       noted that we had not received a software grant for the code,
       but that Day Software does have a CCLA on file. Greg was to
       contact the PMC to get clarification on whether the SPI
       contribution required a grant.
       
       At this point Justin asked if the ASF should have a policy on
       moving code between projects? It was noted that the Apache
       License allows for any PMC to use code in any other PMCs
       codebase, since it is assigned to the ASF and not to a PMC.
       Cliff noted that there is ongoing discussion regarding the
       scope of patents in this case, and what is meant by "the
       work" when code is copied or moved. Cliff will continue to
       work this patent angle, but the board agreed that we
       have no policy in place other than all code is available
       for reuse by all PMCs, which is implicit and implied in
       the license.

       Approved by General Consent

    G. Apache Jakarta Project [Martin van den Bemt / Justin]

       See Attachment G

       Greg ask how and where the BOF mentioned in the report was
       being run? He will follow up with the PMC. Cliff noted that
       BOFs often do not end up on mailing lists but that it would be
       nice if this one did. Ken noted that the Jakarta report also
       mentions the delay in getting HiveMind "moved" to TLP.
       
       Approved by General Consent

    H. Apache Lucene Project [Doug Cutting / Sam]

       See Attachment H

       Jim noted that he liked the fact that they mention SOLR and
       suggested that maybe all TLP's should mention something in their
       reports about any podlings that they have in the Incubator. This,
       at least, means they are keeping track of them. It was noted that
       Google Summer of Code efforts should also be mentioned. Sam
       volunteered to write up an email to this effect and send to
       the Incubator and PMCs.

       Approved by General Consent

    I. Apache Portals Project [Santiago Gala / Greg]

       See Attachment I

       Greg noted the heads-up on a chair change mentioned in the report.

       Approved by General Consent

    J. Apache SpamAssassin Project [Justin Mason / Henri]

       See Attachment J

       Justin asked if there was a need for an ASF-wide security disclosure
       policy, since SA created their own? The board agreed that the
       Security Team should work on that. Ken asked who the "I" was
       mentioned in the report ('I took over') and Justin noted
       that it was Justin Mason. It was noted that the SA project is
       concerned about an external rule project, and the board was
       not sure why they were concerned about it. For example, the
       HTTP project does not worry about external module sites. Henri
       volunteered to contact the SA PMC to determine what their
       concerns are.

       Approved by General Consent

    K. Apache Tomcat Project [Yoav Shapira / Dirk]

       See Attachment K

       Approved by General Consent

    L. Apache Web Services Project [Davanum Srinivas / Sander]

       See Attachment L

       Approved by General Consent

    M. Apache XMLBeans Project [Cezar Andrei / Cliff]

       See Attachment M

       The "reboot" of the XMLBeansCxx podling was noted.
       
       Approved by General Consent

    N. Apache Geronimo Project [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment N

       Approved by General Consent

    O. Conferences Committee [Ken Coar]

       See Attachment O

       Ken reported that there was still no official tally regarding
       ApacheCon Asia, but the numbers all look very good implying
       it was a very successful show. Ken reported that a company
       expressed interest in helping us with a Korean ApacheCon.
       There was no word yet on the next European or US show, but
       Ken hope that an update would be coming soon. ConCom had
       not heard anything at all from S&S.
       
       Approved by General Consent

    P. Apache Xalan Project [Brian Minchau / Justin]

       See Attachment P

       Jim noted that their initial report was pretty meager. They
       had sent an addendum and Henri added it to the agenda. The
       combined report was reviewed.

       Approved by General Consent

    Q. Apache Santuario Project [Berin Lautenbach / Sam]

       See Attachment Q

       Sam volunteered to help the project with moving the lists,
       since the board's opinion is that it would be in the best
       interest of the PMC.
       
       Approved by General Consent

    R. Public Relations Commitee [Brian W. Fitzpatrick / Jim]

       See Attachment R

       It was noted that Ian Holsman had sent a draft report to
       the PRC mailing list, but no one commented on it and
       no report was submitted.
       

 6. Special Orders

    A. Reestablishing the Apache Security Team

       WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best
       interests of the Foundation and consistent with the
       Foundation's purpose to establish the ASF Board Committee
       charged with maintaining the security of software produced by
       the various projects established under the ASF's umbrella,
       but not for the security of the servers and other
       infrastructure used by the ASF.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the ASF Board Committee,
       known as the "Apache Security Team", be and hereby is
       reestablished pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation; and be it
       further

       RESOLVED, that the Apache Security Team be and hereby is
       responsible for organization and oversight of efforts to
       maintain the security of ASF projects and shall act as a
       single point of contact between the ASF and any entity
       wishing to report or fix any security related issue in any
       project.

       RESOLVED, that each project shall appoint at least one
       non-voting liaison to the committee, who shall have commit
       privilege for the project's repository, and the technical
       ability to release new versions, advisories or security
       patches on behalf of the project.

       RESOLVED, that the committee shall have the power to act on
       behalf of any project in matters of security.

       RESOLVED, that Mark Cox shall serve at the direction of
       the Board of Directors as the chair of the Security Team and
       have primary responsibility for managing the Security Team;
       and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and
       hereby are appointed to serve as the members of the Apache
       Security Team:

           Ben Laurie
           Mark Cox

       There was some discussion over the small number of "initial"
       members of the team. It was noted that it was expected that
       new members would be added as soon as the team rebooted.

      Special Order 6A, Reestablishing the Apache Security Team, was
      approved by Unanimous Vote.

 7. Discussion Items

    1. The Maven Foundation

       Jason van Zyl is a respected member, and no longer works for Mergere,
       but has set up a separate fundraising effort for Maven infrastructure.
       Is this something the ASF should fund?  What role should the Maven
       PMC have in this operation?

       The board had a few concerns with the above, not least of which
       was the trademark issue: Maven is a trademark of the ASF
       and the Maven Foundation would be confusing at least and
       infringing and the most. There was also concern on the potential
       confusion and damage it could create within the Maven project
       as well. Since Jason did not attend the board meeting, although
       he was expected, Henri was to contact him regarding the board's
       curiosity regarding the foundation.
       
    2. Patent FAQ

       Doug Cutting drafted the following for the board to vote on:

       Q: If my company owns a patent and contributes to a project,
       and, at the time our contribution is included in the project,
       none of our patent claims are subject to Apache's Grant of
       Patent License, is there any way any of those patent claims
       would later become subject to the Grant of Patent License
       solely due to subsequent contributions by other parties?

       A.  No.  Patent claims subject to the Grant of Patent License
       are determined at the time of the patent holder's contribution.
       If, when you contribute to a project, your patent claims are
       necessarily infringed as a result of your contribution, then
       those patent claims are subject to the Grant of Patent License
       (even if your patent issues or is acquired later).  But, if
       your patent claims are necessarily infringed only after a
       subsequent contribution by another party, the other party's
       contribution will not cause your patent claims to be subject to
       the Grant of Patent License.

       It was noted that the above was not in a format for
       the board to vote on, but it was discussed none-the-less.
       Doug was upset that the issue was still being debated, instead
       of a vote being held on it. Some directors were less than
       clear on what exactly was being asked, since the Answer seems
       to answer 2 questions, somewhat related but different. It was
       also agreed that despite claims that the above would be
       "limited" in scope, a board vote on it would make it a much
       more general policy, not something specific. Greg stressed that
       the board would be much more pro-active in following and addressing
       the discussion on the board list for this issue.

 8. Unfinished Business

    None.
    
 9. New Business

    None.
    
10. Review of Current Action Items

     a: Greg: document the shepherd/mentor concept new TLPs. It was
        agreed that the shepherd/mentor should be a director only at
        this point.
     b: Jim: will shepherd HiveMind
     c: Greg: to handle the "iBATIS in Action" issue where it
        should be Apache iBATIS. Greg to report next month.
     d: Greg: will contact Jackrabbit regarding the SPI contribution
        and whether a grant is required.
     e: Justin: will follow the BOF mentioned in the Jakarta report and
        post results to the board mailing list.
     f: Sam: will draft message re: TLP mentioning Incubator and GSoC
        projects in their board reports.
     g: Sam/Henri: to coordinate marvin changes for the nag email.
     h: Henri: will follow up with SpamAssassin re:why is an external project
        a worry?
     i: Sam: will talk to Berin re: Santuario.
     j: Greg: to ask Security Team for additional reports to track
        reestablishment.
     k: Henri: to email to Jason re: Maven Foundation
     l: Cliff: closure on patent FAQ item.

11. Announcements

    None.
    
12. Adjournment

    Scheduled to adjourn by 12:00 (Pacific). Adjourned at 11:55am.


============
ATTACHMENTS:
============

-----------------------------------------
Attachment A: Status report for the Apache APR Project

Things have been largely quiet in APR since the last board report.

The only issues currently requiring board attention are legal in
nature.  We are still waiting for resolution on the third party code
policy, as well as on the new policies for dealing with crypto code.
Details on both of these issues appeared in the last board report, and
little has changed since then as we are in a holding pattern until the
VP of Legal Affairs finalizes the policies.

Since the last report Ian Holsman resigned from the PMC, citing his
lack of activity in APR over the past year.  He will of course be
welcomed back should there he wish to return at any point in the
future.

We have had a few people proposed for commit access, but there was a
lack of sufficient support to justify granting it.  I intend to make a
pass through the various people who have been nominated over the past
6 months or so soon, to see if any of them have contributed further
and deserve to be brought up again, so hopefully by the next board
report we'll have some new committers and PMC members to talk about.

On the technical front, there continues to be a fairly steady stream
of minor features and bug fixes.  Most new feature work continues to
be in the DBD code in APR-Util, although that seems to have slowed
slightly lately.

There have been no new releases, but it appears that people are
starting to talk about doing some from our current release branches
(0.9.x and 1.2.x) in the near future.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment B: Status report for the Apache Excalibur Project

Excalibur Quarterly Report for September 2006

Items of note

* No new committers.
* No new PMC members.
* No new releases.

However, we're in the middle of putting together a release.  Jorg
Heyman is driving the process and other Excalibur developers are
chiming in with help here and there.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment C: Status report for the Apache Gump Project

Infrastructure:

* During the past weeks we've repeatedly run into disk usage problems,
  we are slowly but steadily outgrowing the resources provided by
  vmgump.  We'll shortly engage in a discussion with the
  infrastructure team to see, what our options are.

* We've informed osuosl and the infrastructure team that we'd like to
  give back gump.osuosl.org.

Technical:

* Maven2 support hasn't improved during the past quarter.

  To tell the truth, we don't have any people actively developing
  anything right now, so we don't expect this to change unless anybody
  jumps in.

  Gump is more and more moving into the direction of a pure
  infrastructure/service type of project with a handful of people
  maintaining it.  This isn't necessarily a bad thing since Gump's
  code is pretty stable and - except for Maven 2 support - does what
  it is supposed to do.

* All CVS locations for sourceforge projects have been fixed by now.

Other:

* still all Apache committers have access to metadata in svn.

* no releases.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment D: Status report for the Apache HiveMind Project

The HiveMind team is working on the architecture for HiveMind 2.0.

The HiveMind TLP move is still in progress.  We still need the websites 
directory and the hivemind unix group created.

We are also in the process of cutting a 1.1.2 release.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment E: Status report for the Apache iBATIS Project

Since our June 2006 report, the Apache iBATIS project has introduced a
Ruby implementation of our data mapper software, joining the existing
implementations for Java and C#.

Jeff Butler, an iBATIS PMC member is hosting a tutorial for ApacheCon
US 2006. Three other PMC members, Clinton Begin, Brandon Goodin, and
Larry Meadors have collaborated on a book about iBATIS, which is now
available from Manning Publications, "iBATIS in Action".

iBATIS for Java 2.2.0 is available as beta grade. A 2.2.1 release is
expected, to fix some DTD issues.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment F: Status report for the Apache Jackrabbit Project

The Apache Jackrabbit project has progressed steadily since our last
status report. We have no board-level issues at this time.

o We voted in Julian Reschke as a new committer and PMC member.

o The Apache Jackrabbit 1.1 release is scheduled to happen at the
  end of September.

o The recent face-lift of our web site received some attention due to
  the "customized" Apache feather logo included in the design. The
  issue was discussed within the PRC and for now we are back to using
  the standard Apache logo to link back to the foundation.

o Day Software has contributed an initial SPI layer for the JCR API
  based on earlier work within the JSR 283 expert group. The ongoing
  SPI effort has potential to clarify and better modularize the
  Jackrabbit core.

o We have discussed with the incubating Apache Graffito project on
  perhaps moving the generic object-content mapping tool they are
  developing into the Apache Jackrabbit project where the tool could
  enjoy a wider community of interested users and developers. The
  feedback within both projects has been positive.

o Our Google Summer of Code project ended successfully with a backup
  tool that implements almost all of the planned features. The missing
  feature (restoring version histories) identified a need for
  structural changes within the Jackrabbit core and we are working
  on solving this issue. The GSoC experience also sparked a good
  discussion on the policies of accepting code changes.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment G: Status report for the Apache Jakarta Project

---Status---

First of all, and I think I can speak here for the whole Jakarta community,
I would like to thank Henri Yandell for his dedication and great job he has
done as our PMC Chair. I hope I can fulfill the job as good as Henri did.
Since Jakarta is quite big and therefor hard to track all activity, I
scheduled a BOF Session for the Jakarta Community. This BOF has a couple
of goals :
- Create an overview of Jakarta projects / community.
- Activity on components
- Possible future directions for Jakarta.
- Collect current issues, problems and worries about Jakarta

--- Releases ---

    * 11 September 2006 - Commons JEXL 1.1 Released
    * 4 August 2006 - Commons Attributes 2.2 Released
    * 1 August 2006 - Commons SCXML 0.5 Released
    * 31 July 2006 - Commons Modeler 2.0 Released
    * 27 June 2006 - Commons HttpClient 3.1 Alpha 1 Released

--- Community changes ---

New chair: Martin van den Bemt
New PMC Members :
     10 September 2006 - Rory Winston
     21 August 2006    - Joerg Schaible
     13 August 2006    - Dennis Lundberg
New committers:
      9 August 2006 - Kris Nuttycombe (commons)
      9 August 2006 - Andrew Shirley (commons)
      4 July 2006   - Thomas Vandahl (turbine)

--- Projects ---

Agila

We had a formal vote to retire Agila from the incbutor. The main reason for
the inactivity in Agila is that the development takes place in Ode. Still
need to do the official request to the incubator.

BCEL

BCEL was part of the GSoC program. The student went half way through and now
BCEL trunk has support for JDK 1.5. Unfortunately the student did not pass
the finals.

BSF

BSF is heading towards a release. Currently they have prepared 2.4.0-rc2 and
expect to go final in about a week.

Commons

Commons Attributes

Leo Sutic, the main active coder for Attributes, decided to call it a day
and so a stable release (2.3) of the current code was made so as not to
leave lots of people sitting on a nightly build. Newer versions of Java make
Attributes obsolete and the component is now considered to be in maintenance
mode.

Commons JEXL

JEXL 1.1 was released with a couple of new features and bug fixes.

Commons JCI

Jakarta Commons JCI was part of the GSoC program. Maven integration and
support for more compilers was on the cards. Unfortunately the student did
not pass the finals.

Commons Modeler

Modeler 2.0 was released, especially to accomodate the Geronimo Team. It
contains a number of fixes and new functionality.

Commons SCXML

SCXML had is first official release, version 0.5.

Hivemind

Still need to finalize the move. Especially the website and the wiki are on
the list to be moved.

HttpComponents

In early June we released Alpha2 of HttpCore.

HttpNIO has been made a sub-component of HttpCore as they will share the
same release cycle. The overall design of !HttpNIO is finished and currently
undergoing review. Parts of the HttpCore API are also subject to intensive
review as a result of the NIO activities.

HttpCookie has been redesigned in a first step.

JCS

Release 1.3.0 was voted on and approved. Expecting a release soon.

Slide

There was a discussion triggered by Oliver Zeigermann on the general list on
the future of the slide project. There is a lack of maintainers and because of
the complexity of the project, it's hard to attract new developers.

Velocity

The Velocity project is making plans to become a TLP. See
http://wiki.apache.org/jakarta/TLPVelocity for the initial draft of the
proposal. Currently a vote is taking place on general & velocity mailinglist
for community approval of the TLP Velocity move. Proposed chair is Henning
Schmiedehausen.  On September 14th, we released beta1 of Velocity 1.5. We
hope to release RC1 after a mini-Velocity hackathon October 9 and 10.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment H: Status report for the Apache Lucene Project

TLP

The Lucene project added one new PMC member, Yonik Seeley.

LUCENE JAVA

Lucene Java is a search-engine toolkit.  It's development has proceeded
at a healthy pace, averaging a few commits per day by a diverse set of
contributors, mostly bug fixes and minor features.  No releases were
made this quarter.  Simon Willnauer, a Google Summer of Code intern, is
a new committer.

NUTCH

Nutch is a web-search engine: crawler, indexer and search runtime.
Nutch made its 0.8 release in July.  This is a major milestone, moving
Nutch on top of Hadoop's distributed computing platform, and with many
other improvements.

HADOOP

Hadoop is a scalable distributed computing platform.  Its monthly
release schedule has continued.  Improvements in reliability, usability
and scalability are steady.  Use is growing too, for example Yahoo!
reports use on a cluster of 600 nodes, and PowerSet reports use on
Amazon's Elastic Computing Cloud (EC2) service.

SOLR

Solr is an enterprise search server, in incubation.  Mike Klass has been
added as a committer.  Development is steady, averaging around one
commit per day with three primary committers.

LUCY

Lucy will develop a shared C-based core for ports of Lucene to other
languages, such as Perl, Python and Ruby.  Little progress has been made
this quarter.

LUCENE.NET

Lucene.Net is an incubator project providing a C# port of Lucene.  Jeff
Rodenburg has been added as its second committer.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment I: Status report for the Apache Portals Project

- JSR-286 keeps going. There was discussion 
  because the JSR-286 lead had contracted 
  a reference implementation of the changes 
  to pluto to be developed by a University, that was
  using Apache branding in a confusing way, and 
  there were concerns about a code dump 
  similar to the one that happened when JSR-168 
  was going on. Concerns seem resolved, and the
  development will talke place in a branch in portals
  SVN.

- Development keeps going on as usual, with
  some areas stronger than other. Several releases
  are ongoing.

- WSRP4J still is quiescent. Maybe the remaining IP
  issues in Oasis. Not sure. Community wise it looks
  like global interest on it is decaying

- Graffito got new committers, perspectives look
  good towards graduation

- The chair is too busy, and finds no longer rewarding 
  the administrative work required to keep portals
  tidy. I'm resigning as soon as other person is elected
  that can take the position. The PMC will propose a 
  name to the Board soon.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment J: Status report for the Apache SpamAssassin Project

- PMC news: we added Daryl O'Shea to the PMC. I took over as PMC chair
  from Daniel Quinlan.  (Thanks Dan!)

- We released SpamAssassin 3.1.5, updating our source licensing comments
  to the new style as part of that.  Shockingly, this is about the third
  or fourth release in a row where we've been on-schedule, somehow ;)

- Several SpamAssassin committers met up at CEAS 2006, one of the major
  anti-spam conferences, and resolved a long-standing veto deadlock over
  plans for part of the SpamAssassin core; good news.

- We adopted a security issue disclosure policy for the project; 1.
  notifications of security issues in SpamAssassin are made in advance to
  vendor-sec and anyone the committers feel like informing, as long as it
  is kept private; 2. public releases are made at an agreed upon time,
  ideally 1-2 business days after the notification to vendor-sec.

- Our 3 Google Summer of Code projects have completed, and two at least
  (as far as I can see) have produced very useful code.

- We are having a little trouble with an external SpamAssassin
  rule-development project, which a few of us feel is distracting
  potential committers from joining our project; however, we're as yet
  unsure what to do about this, or if anything needs to be done.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment K: Status report for the Apache Tomcat Project

- We have no issues that require attention from the Board at this time

Development:
- Continued work on Tomcat 6.0 development: we expect to have release
  6.0.0 ready roughly at the same time that Servlet Specification v2.5
  and JSP Specification v2.1 are finalized.  No change here since
  previous Board report.
- Much work has been done on the mod_jk connector, improving
  reliability, performance, and monitoring options for httpd / mod_jk
  administrators.  It's been great to see the increased level of energy
  and enthusiasm around the connectors, and the new connector releases
  have been getting pre-release testing from a number of committers on
  various platforms.
- We've also added a non-blocking HTTPS protocol connector written in
  Java to provide users with another choice on platforms that handle
  non-blocking IO threads well.
- We're also diversifying release managers: Mark Thomas is the current
  release manager for Tomcat 4.x, Filip Hanik for Tomcat 5.x, Remy
  Maucherat for 6.x, and Rainer Jung for the connectors.

Releases:
- mod_jk 1.2.17 and 1.2.18 were released.  1.2.18 is currently the
  stable release (it was put out on July 20th).  mod_jk 1.2.19 is in the
  works, expected to release in the first half of September.
- Tomcat 4.1.34 was released in the first week of September, and
  addresses virtually all the issues reported against the previous 4.1
  release.
- Tomcat 5.5.18 and 5.5.19 were cut, but did not make it into final
  release: 5.5.20 is in the works. Tomcat 5.5.17 is still the latest
  stable Tomcat release.

People:
- No changes since last Board report.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment L: Status report for the Apache Web Services Project

- Notable Happenings
  * Axis2 project has gone through a number of improvements after its
    1.0 release , specially code generation and data binding. In the
    mean time new features were introduced + numerous bug fixes.
    Axis2 development team is planning to do Axis2 1.1 release
    by end of September.
  * XML-RPC project has merged its "user" and "dev" mailing lists, in
    order to have a single, but larger community. The traffic on both
    lists wasn't high enough for two separate discussion lists. A new
    mailing list "auto" was established for jira and svn notifications.
  * The Muse project has made significant progress towards a 2.0 release
    with new contributions from programmers at Cisco, Compuware, and IBM.
    The team is currently under code freeze and working on its tutorial
    content.
  * Microsoft announced a Open Specification Promise (OSP) which will
    ensure that we can implement the covered ws-* specifications without
    IP worries (at least we don't have to worry about MSFT!)

- Cross-Project Issues
  * Apache Sandesha and Apache Kandula are not interoperating currently,
    but Kandula2 is on progress which will interoperate with Sandesha2
    and other modules in Axis2.
  * The [WWW] JaxMe project is extremely quiet. In the last two weeks,
    several bug fixes have occurred, but apart from that the project
    is approaching archiving status.

- Code Releases
  * XML-RPC released v3.0rc1 on Jul 27, 2006
  * XML-RPC released v3.0 on Aug 30, 2006
  * Axis2/C released v0.93 on Aug 31, 2006


-----------------------------------------
Attachment M: Status report for the Apache XMLBeans Project

1. Development continues with a few new features like options for 
controlling when CDATA is used, update executing XQuery with Saxon-B 
version 8.6.1 engine and bug fixes for synchronization, locking, 
serialization and XQuery execution.

2. XMLBeans v2.2.0 was released on 23rd of June. 

3. There were no new committers or PMC changes this time.

4. For XMLBeansCxx project in Incubator, from Cliff Schmidt:

  The xmlbeanscxx proposal has been resubmitted with a somewhat different
  set of committers and a new code base.  Just after being accepted for 
  incubation some time ago, the committers discovered that another open 
  source developer had a similar code base.  The two groups got together 
  before anything got started at Apache and have come back with a new 
  proposal, which is being voted on now by the XMLBeans pmc (results 
  will be known Tuesday morning PDT).


-----------------------------------------
Attachment N: Status report for the Apache Geronimo Project

This report is for the last two months (let's say August-September):

Some content to be reported verbally in executive session.

Community
---------
 - Voted in 1 new committer which brings us to 32 committers
 - Voted in 7 new PMC members.  PMC currently at 19 members
 - Community voted to return to CTR from RTC starting on September 18th
 - Moved Geronimo's Wiki from Moin Moin to Confluence.

 Inter-project relationship status:
  * Yoko (CORBA orb) integration work in Geronimo under way.
  * Future versions of Geronimo (2.x) will use the ActiveMQ and
    OpenEJB projects currently in the incubator instead of the
    versions of these projects from Codehaus.

Releases
--------
o Geronimo - Version 1.1.1 was approved for release and the jars were
  made available on Monday, September 18th.
o Xbean - Version 2.6 was released on Sunday, September 3, 2006.
o Devtools - Version 1.1 released first week of August.
o DayTrader - Version 1.1.1 is ready to start the release process.  It
  includes minor tweaks and a few bug fixes.  Nothing major.
o Genesis - Version 1.0 is in the voting process now.

Development
-----------
 Geronimo
  * Dain and Alan were voted in as release managers for 1.2.
  * Content being defined by the community.
  * Changed Geronimo trunk build to Maven 2.

 DayTrader
  * Bug fixes for 1.1.1.
  * Some POCs on new Ajax interfaces

 DevTools
  * Increase in dev list traffic for users of DevTools and Geronimo
    seen
  * Examining changes to Geronimo runtime to improve tooling
    experience and performance.


-----------------------------------------
Attachment O: Status report for the Conferences Committee

ApacheCon Asia 2006:
 o Still no detailed report of attendance, etc.  Personal
   impressions remain that it was a success, and a number of
   people from India were *very* enthusiastic about having it
   there next year.

ApacheCon US 2006:
 o Projected attendance figures remain low, but if the trend
   from this point forward tracks with past conferences', we
   should have a couple of hundred attendees and make some money.
 o Brian Behlendorf sent SCP (Stone Circle Productions, Charel's
   company) contact info for someone in the Austin area, and
   SCP is pursuing the possibility of reduced rates for locals,
   since that could result in a few dozen additional.
 o The contract between the ASF and SCP is still not finalised.
   It has gone back and forth a few times; right now it is in
   the ASF's court (with Danese Cooper) checking the latest
   language.  All issues have been resolved except the duration
   one; SCP wanted a minimum 3-year contract for venue contract
   and planning purposes, and so the ASF couldn't drop her with
   huge monetary commitments having been made.  A compromise
   was reached for a 2-year rolling contract.  Another alternative
   that could have had more discussion would have been a 3-year
   contract with a clause that the ASF would pick up any such
   costs that were made for future venue holds.  There has been
   some negative feedback on IRC, such as remarks about 'Charel's
   blackmail,' so it's once again unclear how universally satisfied
   the members will be.
 o Sun dropped out of the top-sponsor slot, which is currently
   vacant.  IBM dropped out as a sponsor, but might return --
   contact has been made with longer-term resource sources.

ApacheCon US 2007:
 o No plans yet, looking for possible locations.

-----------------------------------------
Attachment P: Status report for the Apache Xalan Project

Xalan-C
=======

Nothing new to report, just the usual bug fixing.


Xalan-J
=======

Not much to report, just the usual bug fixing.

Addendum from board@
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

One item I forgot to mention under Xalan-J is that Xerces-J is moving to
using the serializer (writes out XML to a flat file) that is part of
Xalan-J rather than their own serializer. The focus of Xerces is XML
parsing not writing out of XML.  In addition some voting has happened on
the Xerces mailing lists to donate some DOM level 3 support to the Xalan-J
serializer.

The Xalan-J team is receptive to this donation, which will likely be coming
through Neil Delima who is a Xerces committer.  That would be a very good
time to have a 2.7.1 release.
Right now however everyone has been just to busy to pursue this.

There are no changes in personnel for Xalan

The activity of the Xalan committers as waned a bit in the last year, but
the following committers remain reasonably active:
Henry Zongaro
Yash Talwar
Brian Minchau
David Bertoni
Dmitry Hayes


-----------------------------------------
Attachment Q: Status report for the Apache Santuario Project

Version 1.3 of the C++ library has now  been released.  The focus from
here will move to supporting the new version of Xerces and refactoring
the build process under *NIX.

A release candidate for version 1.4 of the Java library was released,
and has lead to some discussion on changes in the API.

All changes on the web site are now being replicated on the santuario
web site, and we will soon move to that as the main site and update it
to reflect the name change.  Development and user discussion is still
occuring on the "old" xml mailing lists - and there are no plans to
change this at any time soon.  If it ain't broke - don't fix it!


-----------------------------------------
Attachment R: Status report for the Public Relations Commitee


------------------------------------------------------
End of minutesfor the September 20, 2006 board meeting.
