                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                              18 April 2001


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 9:00am PST -0800. A quorum was
    recognized at 9:08am and the meeting commenced.  The meeting was held
    by teleconference hosted by Covalent (Randy Terbush):

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:
        Ken Coar
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Greg Stein
        Bill Stoddard
        Randy Terbush

    Directors Absent:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Roy T. Fielding
        Ben Laurie

    Guests:
        None

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 21 Mar 2001

    See <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2001/board_minutes_2001_03-21.txt.NY>.

    Not all directors had read the minutes; the minutes of the meeting of
    21 Mar. 2001 were not approved at this time.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]
       Brian was not available and so the President report was tabled.

    B. Treasurer  [Randy]
       Randy reported no changes since the last meeting.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that work has been continuing on matching all
       ASF members with signed CLAs.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported on the preliminary results of ApacheCon 2001. Early
       numbers indicate that the show did at least break-even. Ken
       reminded the board of the conflict of the Dublin-based ApacheCon
       2001 European show with the O'Reilly Open Source Conference
       scheduled for the following week in London. Jim reported on the
       meeting between members of the planning committee, Camelot
       and the O'Reilly conference planners while at ApacheCon. During
       the meeting, the ASF planners were given the opportunity to
       "re-craft" the conference topics for the O'Reilly conference,
       to avoid as much as possible the conflict between the ApacheCon
       topics; the O'Reilly show was heavily web-services based. A
       mutually agreeable charter was determined. It was also agreed
       that O'Reilly would present to planners their final conference/
       session lineup, at which point, if it was agreed to by all
       parties, cross-promotion and other mutually benefical arrangement
       would be considered.
       
       There was some discussion at this time regarding the fact that the
       Zot Group, which had been performing PR work for the ASF was "going
       away" and, in fact, 2 members of Zot were hired by Camelot to expand
       their PR and Marketing capabilities. Because of the already existing
       relationship between the ASF and Camelot, it was agreed that the ASF
       should consider making Camelot the prime PR firm for the ASF. It
       was further agreed that Ken and Jim would contact Camelot to
       arrange for a RFP from Camelot to address this opportunity. Final
       decisions would be based after the ASF received the proposal and
       quote from Camelot.
       
       Ken further reported that the ConCom is seeking a 3 year term
       with Camelot, subject to our conditions and qualifications.

 6. Special Orders
    Dirk reported no addition work or effort had been done on the
    XML list.

 7. Unfinished Business
    None

 8. New Business

   A. Discussion of suitability and next steps with proposed "License 1.2".
      There was extensive discussion regarding the proposed "License 1.2"
      designed to specifically address the misconception that the Apache
      License is incompatible with the GPL. Some points raised were:
      
        1. We should not adjust our License to work around the
           deficiencies of other licenses.
        2. The general consensus is that there is no conflict.
        3. That up to now, the ASF has been silent on this issue,
           which has allowed for more vocal "opinions" to sway
           people. It is most likely in the ASF's best interest,
           as well as the board's obligation, to become an educational
           resource to the public regarding some basic facts about our
           License.

      It was agreed that the Licensing subproject would seriously
      discuss and work these concerns.

 9. Announcements
    None

10. Adjournment
    The meeting was adjourned at 11:19am.

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
End of minutes

