                       The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                              21 March 2001


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 9:00am PST -0800. A quorum was recognized
    at 9:06am and the meeting was called to order. The meeting was held by
    teleconference hosted by Covalent (Randy Terbush):

 2. Roll Call

    At roll call, the following Directors were present:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Randy Terbush

    At roll call, the following Directors were present:
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Rasmus Lerdorf
        Doug MacEachern

    At roll call, the following Guests were present:
        Sam Ruby, V.P., Jakarta

    The following Directors arrived late:
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik  (9:09am)
        Rasmus Lerdorf (???)

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 21 Feb 2001

    The minutes from the meeting of 21 Feb 2001 were approved by consent.
    See <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2001/
    board_minutes_2001_02-21.txt>.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]
       Brian reported on his continued efforts in supporting the
       ASF infrastructure. This includes the '.org' web site, members
       email and user/contributor accounts. On a personal note, Brian
       informed the board of his continued discussions with Richard
       Stallman regarding the Apache License and the GPL.

    B. Treasurer  [Randy]
       Randy reported a current balance of $118,706.51 in the ASF account.
       A detailed balance sheet, in PDF format, is available in CVS. The
       ASF is current at the end of the fiscal year, and thus we will
       incur accounting costs due to that close-out.

       Randy also (re-)reported that the ASF had obtained official 501c(3)
       status "in consideration." There was some discussion on whether this
       could be applied ("grandfathered") to contributions made in the past.
       Since our status will only take effect our next fiscal year, it
       appears that this is not the case. There was additional discussion
       on updating the ASF site to reflect the news of our 501c(3) status.

       There was also discussion on possibly implementing something similar
       to what the Python Software Foundation (correct name??) has with
       "Corporate Supporter Fees." In this setup, the donation fee structure
       is clearly defined.

       Randy also noted that because of the problems the ASF has been
       having in trying to obtain a merchant account with Well Fargo,
       he is recommending we search for a new merchant account vendor.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that he has been matching the current list of ASF members
       with their signed ASF forms. In particular, the first priority is to
       ensure that all ASF members have a signed ASF Membership Application
       on file. The online 'members.txt' file will contain the list of forms
       onfile for each member.

       Jim reported that he has sent out to all ASF members (and will send
       an additional reminder) regarding the annual members meeting, and
       the 2 elections/votes being held at the meeting. He is reminding
       members that if they cannot attend, that they can, and should,
       select a proxy.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that the initial attendee numbers for ApacheCon 2001
       are low, on the order of around 124 paid attendees and 314 "expo
       only." The reality is that this show will most likely be noticably
       smaller than either the AC2K or AC2K-Euro shows.

       Ken also reported that there appears to be a conflict between the
       ApacheCon 2001-Euro show (scheduled for Dublin, Oct 14-16) and
       O'Reilly's Open Source Conference in London. The Conference
       Committee is working with Camelot Communications and O'Reilly
       to obtain a solution.

       Discussion was held on how we should handle the cases where the
       ASF "should" pay for members' travel and expenses to ApacheCon.
       It was debated on whether the ConCom should have a budget to be
       used for such expenses or whether it should be an actual expense
       of the Conference itself (and thus handled by Camelot). Dirk and
       Jim offered to consider the problem and offer to the board solutions.
       
       Ken reported the ConCom's desire to sign Camelot to a longer-term
       contract, on the order of 3 years or so. The board agreed that the
       ConCom should investigate and pursue this option.

    B. Jakarta Project [Sam Ruby]
       Sam reported that the first meeting of the "revamped" PMC was
       held on IRC on March 19. Full IRC notes can be found on:

           http://jakarta.apache.org/site/pmc/

       Sam further reported the addition of 7 new "members" of the
       project, and the departure of 2.

    C. XML Project [Dirk]
       Dirk reported that the XML project still has no chairman
       and no charter. There was a recent election of the new PMC
       (Jim and BenL "officiated" the election and tallied the votes)
       and Dirk expressed concern of a voter turn-out of less than 50%.
       Dirk reported that one item that the voting process brought to
       light was the serious need to "scrub" the member and committer
       lists for the project.

 6. Special Orders

    A. Allocation of $2500 for Batik press announcement

       ZOTGroup has requested $2500 to offset the costs related to the
       press release for Batik 1.0.
       
       This was approved by consent.

    B. Covalent request for permission to use Apache name

       See foundation/Licenses/Covalent-PB.txt

       This request has been granted. The board recognizes that Jim
       has sent the required authorization to Covalent.

    C. Tripwire request for permission to use Apache name

       Tripwire has requested written approval to use the Apache name
       in a new product implemented as a plugin module for the Apache
       HTTP server.   The name would be

          "Tripwire for web pages, Apache edition, powered by Covalent"

       This request has been granted. The ASF will await the formal written
       request to be received, at which point Jim will sign and return.
       
    D. Discussion of things we need to do to advertize 501(c)(3) status

       This was already discussed during the Treasurer's report, item 4B.

    E. Amending the bylaws to prevent a situation where more than half
       of the board of directors consisted of employees/owners of the
       same company.

       It was agreed that this would be discussed both on-list and at the
       members meeting.

 7. Unfinished Business

    A. Reestablishing the Jakarta PMC

          =========== R1: Sam Ruby [w/Roy's edits] ============

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of commercial-quality, open-source, server-side
          software solutions for the Java Platform, for distribution at no
          charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Project Management
          Committee known as the "Jakarta Project Management Committee",
          be and hereby is reestablished pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the Jakarta Project Management Committee be and
          hereby is responsible for the creation and maintenance of
          commercial-quality, open-source, server-side solutions for the Java
          Platform based on software licensed to the Foundation; and be it
          further 

          RESOLVED, that the person holding the office of "Vice President,
          Jakarta" shall continue to serve at the direction of the Board of
          Directors as the chairman of the Jakarta Project Management
          Committee, and to have primary responsibility for management of the
          projects within the scope of responsibility of the Jakarta Project
          Management Committee; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby
          are appointed to serve as members of the Jakarta Project Management
          Committee.

              James Duncan Davidson     <duncan@apache.org>
              Peter Donald              <donaldp@apache.org>
              Pier Paolo Fumagalli      <pier@apache.org>
              Diane Holt                <holtdl@apache.org>
              Ted Husted                <husted@apache.org>
              Ceki Gülcü                <ceki@apache.org>
              Geir Magnusson Jr.        <geirm@apache.org>
              Craig McClanahan          <craigmcc@apache.org>
              Sam Ruby                  <rubys@apache.org>
              Daniel F. Savarese        <dfs@apache.org>
              Jon Stevens               <jon@apache.org>
              Jason van Zyl             <jvanzyl@apache.org>

          =====================================

       Resolution R1 passes by unanimous consent.

    B. Reestablishing the XML PMC

          =========== R2: Roy/Dirk ============

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
          of the Foundation and consistent with the Foundation's purpose to
          establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation
          and maintenance of commercial-quality open-source software related
          to XML, for distribution at no charge to the public.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Project Management
          Committee known as the "XML Project Management Committee",
          be and hereby is reestablished pursuant to Bylaws of the Foundation;
          and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the XML Project Management Committee be and
          hereby is responsible for the creation and maintenance of
          commercial-quality open-source software related to XML, based
          on software licensed to the Foundation; and be it further 

          RESOLVED, that the person holding the office of "Vice President,
          XML" shall continue to serve at the direction of the Board of
          Directors as the chairman of the XML Project Management
          Committee, and to have primary responsibility for management of the
          projects within the scope of responsibility of the XML Project
          Management Committee; and be it further

          RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby
          are appointed to serve as members of the XML Project Management
          Committee.

              Scott Boag
              Ted Leung
              Sam Ruby
              Davanum Srinivas
              Dirk-Willem van Gulik

          =====================================

       With the modification of the addition of a comma (",") 3rd paragraph,
       3rd line, after the words "related to XML", Resolution R2 passes by
       unanimous consent.
       
    C. Status of relationship with Cooley Godward LLP

       C1. Agreement and contact info
       C2. Plan for registering Apache trademarks
       C3. Plan for engagement regarding ASF license revision
       C4. Plan for engagement regarding employee agreements

       Regarding the ASF relationship with Cooley Godward LLP, it was
       discussed and agreed that the board needs to give serious consideration
       on how to best utilize and control the "use" of their services. One
       method would be to have a single "point of contact" at the ASF that
       interacts directing with CG LLP, and that CG LLP would only accept
       "work" through that contact.

       Randy agreed to continue to work the issues with item C2 (trademarks)
       whereas Ken agreed to work the issues regarding item C3 (ASF license).
       Randy is to "post" a list of CG LLP contacts to the ASF board.

 8. New Business
    There was no new business.

 9. Announcements
    There were no announcements.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was scheduled to adjourn by 10:30am PST -0800. The actual
    adjournment time was 10:38am.

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
End of minutes
