
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                             17 October 2001


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PDT -0700. The meeting was held by
    teleconference hosted by IBM.

    At 10:10am, a quorum was recognized by the chair and roll was called.
 
 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie (arrived 10:23am)
        Bill Stoddard

    Directors (expected to be) Absent:
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Greg Stein
        Randy Terbush

    Guests:
         Drew Wright, Lawyer with IBM, attended at 10:30am

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 15 Aug 2001

    By unanimous consent, board_minutes_2001_08_15.txt in
    cvs.apache.org:/home/cvs board were approved.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. President  [Brian]
       Brian reported that the infrastructure transitions have been going
       smoothly, although email is a bit slower than other services. Brian
       also reported on the move of the servers from Exodus to AboveNet in
       San Francisco. Additional connectivity is being implemented via
       InterNap, although it is not yet completed. Some routing problems
       have been encountered while the InterNap link is being added.
       
       Brian also reported on the ASF Membership in Project Liberty,
       but that there was no additional status over and above the
       membership announcement. Brian also reported that there was no
       further status on the "no pay" W3C membership item.

    B. Treasurer [Randy]
       No report due to Randy's absence.

    C. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that, due to the amount of "strange" mail that
       the ASF receives, especially from non-US locations, he is
       taking normal precautions with mail. Jim reported that when
       a signed Contributor License Agreement is received, it is
       mentioned on the members mailing list, unless Jim was given a
       "head's up" to expect it from a PMC. It was also noted that
       up to now, the ASF has not been active in requiring signed
       CLAs from all committers. Jim will be sending email to all
       those with commit access reminding them that it is required.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that Security Travel has been selected as the
       conference organizers for ApacheCon. The next show will most
       likely be held in Las Vegas in the summer of 2002, with the
       European show 6-9 months past that. The ConCom is looking into
       Security's "recommendation" of possibly making Las Vegas the
       normal location of the US ApacheCons. Ken also mentioned that
       he has been approaching the speakers who have not been paid
       for the previous ApacheCon, due to Camelot Communication's
       bankruptcy, and is organizing their reimbursement.

 6. Special Orders

    A) Request from IBM to make a BSF project within Jakarta.  [Bill]

       Bill had posted to the members mailing list a revised license
       that covered both contributors to and end users of ASF software.
       The proposed license, and the comments to it, were discussed. Of
       particular interest was in the phrasing to ensure that the agreement
       would also apply to those that did the actual work and not just the
       person or entity that donated the work. Bill will work with Drew to
       address the concerns and suggestions offered on the member's list
       and in this meeting.
       

 7. Unfinished Business

    A) ASF virtual office

       Roy wants to be able to distribute access to the ASF corporate records
       and business accounts, including basic things like a shipping account
       and a teleconferencing account.  We need to have a low-barrier access
       to setting up organizational meetings, whether that be in the form of
       on-line access to the office or designating a specific office person
       who will be responsible for setting these things up for us [responsible
       as in they can place orders and coordinate minor things without having
       to jump through hoops].

       It was agreed that Roy will investigate this via a contact in Oracle,
       regarding their Oracle Small Business offering:

          <http://www.oraclesmallbusiness.com/>

    B) Contributor logos

       It was discussed that some sort of "Apache contributor" or "Apache
       sponsor" logo would be an easy way to improve recognition for the
       companies that pay salaries or donate money to Apache projects. Having
       tiers of such sponsorship was also discussed, as was the control
       issue, and having corresponding information on www.apache.org for
       those logos. Roy will post an announcement about this mini-project
       on the members mailing list.

    C) ASF License

       The board discussed various issues regarding copyright and patents
       and the work of the licensing committee. Several groups want the ASF
       to address contribution and use of patented software in contributors
       agreement and/or copyright license, while others wish the ASF would
       solve the FSF's claim of our license's incompatibility with the GPL.
       We have a set of goals in foundation/Licenses, but no sense of
       direction or ownership.  Ben Laurie volunteered to head this effort.

 8. New Business
    None announced or discussed.

 9. Announcements
    Brian reported that he has assumed the role of V.P. of Engineering
    at CollabNet.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned at 10:55am PDT -0700.

