                     The Apache Software Foundation

                    Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            28 November 2001


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 10:00am PST -0800 and to begin as soon
    thereafter that a sufficient attendance to constitute a quorum is
    recognized by the chairman.  The meeting was be held by teleconference
    hosted by IBM. At 10:02am a quorum was recognized and roll was called.


 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present at Roll (or shortly thereafter):
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik
        Jim Jagielski
        Ben Laurie
        Greg Stein
        Bill Stoddard
        Randy Terbush

    Directors (expected to be) Absent:
        None

    Guests:
        Ben Hyde

 3. Minutes from the meeting of 17 Oct 2001

   The minutes of the board meeting of 17 Oct 2001 (board_minutes_2001_10_17.txt),
   as amended by Roy via Email <20011126144055.A8474@waka.ebuilt.net>,
   were approved by unanimous consent.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman  [Roy]
       Roy reported that he is continuing his investigation into a "virtual
       office" setup for the ASF. Regarding the Oracle Small Business
       solution, it is actually NetLedger which provides the service.
       Further investigation is being performed. Roy also reported that
       he will follow-up with the Contributor Logo email of last meeting.

    B. President  [Brian]
       Brian reported that the infrastructure is performing well, and that
       the move of the Jakarta project's email to their own server has
       resulted in better performance overall.

    C. Treasurer [Randy]
       Randy report on the foundation's financial standing. PDF's of the
       actual accounting reports are held in the CVS tree. Randy also
       reported that he is continuing investigation into a merchant
       account for the ASF, having been declined by Wells Fargo.

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]
       Jim reported that after his email request for signed CLAs from
       all committers, he has been receiving a steady stream of them.
       Because of the volume, it is taking some time to coordinate
       and document the status. An additional email will be sent "shortly"
       with the current status of received CLAs.
       
       There was some discussion on using this opportunity to also create
       a comprehensive list of PGP keys for all committers.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Conference Planning [Ken]
       Ken reported that there have been communications with "Security"
       regarding the next ApacheCon and that things are progressing. Ken
       also reported that he is close to completing the list of out-
       standing payments due to Speakers, et.al. after the last ApacheCon
       due to Camelot's insolvency. This will be forwarded to Randy for
       payment. So far, the expected totals are within our allocated
       budegt.

 6. Special Orders

    A. ASF License 2.0

    The topic that was discussed was related to the following statement
    in the Agenda:
    "There seems to be general agreement in the licensing mailing list on
    the content within Exhibit A (which is the same as in the file
    foundation/Licenses/Apache/license-roy.txt) as a new license that would
    accomplish the previously stated goals.  The board can choose to approve
    it for use now (leaving it to each PMC as to when/if to apply it for
    each project), mandate that it be used by all PMC after a certain date,
    send it to an outside lawyer for further review, ask the members to vote
    on it, or any combination of the above."
    
    Discussion of the proposed license centered around whether the additional
    complexity due to addressing patent and contribution issues was worth the
    departure from the simple BSD-like terms. The question also arose as to
    whether such a change would require a full vote of the members due to
    how important the open source license is to the mission and bylaws of the
    Foundation. Roy offered to create a more BSD-like alternative license
    for the purpose of comparision, and will send a message to all ASF
    committers to be sure that they are aware of the proposed license change
    and are able to make comments on the proposal before the board makes a
    final decision. This item was then tabled for consideration at a future
    meeting after more feedback has been received from interested parties.

    ======

    B. Establishing a PMC for a federated identity project

    The topic that was discussed was related to the following statement
    in the Agenda:
    "Ben Hyde has requested that a PMC be established for dealing with the
    Liberty Alliance issues.  Roy suggested that a PMC for the implementation
    of a federated identity system could be established and it could handle,
    or end, the relationship as it sees fit.  This agenda item is simply
    to check current progress and determine if we are ready to create a
    PMC for this yet."
    
    After discussion, it was agreed that continuing the present course,
    with a light-weight mailing list, made the most sense, due to the
    response and feedback of the ASF members.

 7. Unfinished Business

    A. Request from IBM to make a BSF project within Jakarta.  [Bill]

 8. New Business
    There was no New Business.

 9. Announcements
    There were no Announcements.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was scheduled to adjourn by 11:30am PST -0800,
    and was actually adjourned at 11:10am.

__________________________________________________________
End of minutes for the 28 Nov 2001 board meeting.
