
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                   Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            10 March 2000


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 9:00am EST -0500.  A quorum was
    recognized by the chair and the meeting started at 9:27am.  The
    meeting was held in the AC2K "Press Room" at the Caribe Royale
    Conference Center, Orlando, Florida, coinciding with the
    ApacheCon 2000 conference.

 2. Roll Call

    The following directors were in attendance at roll call:
       Brian Behlendorf, Ken Coar, Ben Hyde, Jim Jagielski,
       Roy Fielding, Randy Terbush, Dirk-Willem van Gulik.

    The following directors joined after roll call:
       Ben Laurie joined at 9:45am.

    The following directors were absent:
       Sameer Parekh

    The following guests were in attendance:
       None
       
 3. Special Orders / Unfinished Business

    A. Proposal from ZOT Group for continuing media management services.

       Ben Laurie reported that ZOT Group wished to continue their services
       gratis.  There was general agreement that the board was very happy
       with the services provided by the ZOT Group over the past year, and
       further that the ASF should obtain a list of actual expenses from
       the ZOT Group so that we could at least reimburse the fixed costs
       of past press releases.  The President [Brian] was assigned the
       task of extending the contract with ZOT Group.

    B. Perl-Apache PMC

       Roy presented a resolution to incorporate the mod_perl
       project as a formal ASF project.  The following resolution
       was approved by unanimous consent.

      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors deems it to be in the best interests
      of the Corporation and consistent with the Corporation's purpose to
      establish a Project Management Committee charged with the creation and
      maintenance of open-source software related to the Perl computer
      language for distribution at no charge to the public.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a Project Management
      Committee, to be known as the "Perl-Apache Project Management Committee",
      be and hereby is established pursuant to Bylaws of the Corporation;
      and be it further

      RESOLVED, that the Perl-Apache Project Management Committee be
      and hereby is responsible for the creation and maintenance of Perl 
      software based on software licensed to the Corporation; and be it further

      RESOLVED, that the office of "Vice President, Perl-Apache" be
      and hereby is created, the person holding such office to serve at the
      direction of the Board of Directors as the chairman of the Perl-Apache
      Project Management Committee, and to have primary responsibility for
      management of the projects within the scope of responsibility of the
      Perl-Apache Project Management Committee; and be it further

      RESOLVED, that the persons listed immediately below be and hereby are
      appointed to serve as the initial members of the Perl-Apache Project
      Management Committee.

          Doug MacEachern
          Stas Bekman
          Eric Cholet
          Ask Bjoern Hansen

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Doug MacEachern
      be and hereby is appointed to the office of Vice President, Perl-Apache,
      to serve in accordance with and subject to the direction of the Board
      of Directors and the Bylaws of the Corporation until death, resignation,
      retirement, removal or disqualification, or until a successor is
      appointed; and be it further

      RESOLVED, that the initial Perl-Apache Project Management Committee be
      and hereby is tasked with the creation of a set of bylaws intended to
      encourage open development and increased participation in the
      Perl-Apache Project.


    C. XML and Data Channel License.

       Dirk presented information regarding various License statements
       desired and required by Data Channel. The board agreed that
       continued work on the effort was required. Dirk agreed to
       handle the issues and keep the board informed of its status.

 4. New Business

     None

 5. Announcements

     None

 6. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned at 11:00am EST -0500.

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
