
                     The Apache Software Foundation

                   Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

                            22 October 2000


 1. Call to order

    The meeting was scheduled for 9:00pm BST +0100 after the ASF
    Members Meeting. After some delay rounding up the board members,
    a quorum was recognized by the chair and the meeting started at
    9:25pm.  The meeting was held by at the upstairs lounge at the
    London Hilton Olympia

 2. Roll Call

    Directors Present:
        Brian Behlendorf
        Ken Coar
        Roy T. Fielding
        Ben Laurie (arrived 9:30pm)
        Rasmus Lerdorf
        Doug MacEachern (arrived 9:30pm)
        Randy Terbush
        Dirk-Willem van Gulik (arrived 9:30pm)

    Directors Absent:
        None

    Guests:
        James Duncan Davidson (V.P., Jakarta)

 3. Minutes from the meetings of 24 July 2000

    The minutes from the board meeting of 24 July 2000 were approved
    by general consent.  The minutes are recorded at
    <http://www.apache.org/foundation/records/minutes/2000/
    board_minutes_2000_07_24.txt>.

 4. Officer Reports

    A. Chairman   [Roy]

       Roy reported that he had more time available to focus on
       the ASF. First on his agenda was to update the ASF site
       to reflect reality.

    B. President  [Brian]

       Brian reported that he was working on various Licensing
       issues, including a "write-up" of sorts describing the
       Apache License and how it compares with other Licenses.
       This is in response to discussions on various mailing
       lists.

    C. Treasurer  [Randy]

       Randy reported the current status of the ASF banking account.
       Detailed account information can be found in the Funds
       directory of the foundation CVS tree/site.
       
       Randy reported that the ASF has received notice from the IRS of
       our filing for 501(c)(3) status. 

    D. Exec. V.P. and Secretary [Jim]

       Jim had nothing to report.

 5. Committee Reports

    A. Apache Conferences Committee [Ken]

       Ken reported that the Conference Committee was working the
       issues for the next ApacheCons, including addressing the
       feedback received that an ApacheCon in Australia would be
       a positive venue.

 6. Special Orders

    None.

 7. Unfinished Business

    None.

 8. New Business

    A Round-table discussion was held on 2 topics:
    
    A. Scheduled Board Meetings

       It was agreed that a Board Meeting would be held on the 3rd
       Wednesday of every month at 9:00am Pacific Time. It is
       anticipated that by having monthly meeting they will be short
       and concise. These could be supplimented by the use of irc.

       Jim was to determine the feasibility of procuring telecon
       services under the ASF directly, instead of using telecon
       services provided on the ASF's behalf.

    B. Webmaster Employee for ASF

       It was agreed that it made sense for the ASF to look into
       hiring support to serve as a "webmaster" for the ASF sites.
       Brian was to generate a Job Description for such a position
       to be reviewed and possibly voted for at the next board
       meeting.
       
 9. Announcements

    None.

10. Adjournment

    The meeting was adjourned at 10:25pm BST +0100.

__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________
End of minutes
